{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff6\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f194\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f195\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f197\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f198\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f199\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f200\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f201\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f210\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f211\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f213\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f214\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f215\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
Plain Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}}{\info{\author Matthew Weiner}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo2\dy26\hr14\min42}
{\revtim\yr2001\mo2\dy26\hr15\min4}{\version6}{\edmins22}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords4050}{\nofchars23088}{\nofcharsws28353}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Tossups by Andrew Yaphe
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Recent cases in which it has figured include }{\i\f5\fs18 Davis v. Bandemer}{\f5\fs18 , in which the court ruled that actions in Indiana were egregious but not a constitutional violation, and }{\i\f5\fs18 United Jewish Organizations of Williamsbu
rgh v. Carey}{\f5\fs18 , in which the court ruled that Jews had not been discriminated against. In 1960\rquote s }{\i\f5\fs18 Gomillion v. Lightfoot}{\f5\fs18 , the court ruled that an \'93uncouth, 28-sided figure\'94
 in Tuskegee was illegal. FTP, identify this practice, which was more famously considered in 1962\rquote s }{\i\f5\fs18 Baker v. Carr}{\f5\fs18 
, a means of rigging elections named for the governor of Massachusetts who in 1812 designed a political district in a peculiar manner.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul gerrymander}{\f5\fs18 ing
\par 
\par 2. It begins with a note written "To the Public" after the author's "t
hree years slumber on the banks of the Ocean" which proclaims that "Poetry Fetter'd, Fetters the Human Race!" In Plate 99 at the end of Chapter 4, it is stated that "All Human Forms" are identified and the "Name of the Emanations" is revealed. FTP, identi
fy this poem, subtitled "The Emanation of the Giant Albion," which was written between 1804 and 1820, the longest of the engraved works by William Blake whose title names a city.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Jerusalem}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 3. In 1901, Jacques Jean Marie found the stele containing 
the Code of Hammurabi in the ruins of Susa where it had been taken by the Elamites during their plundering of the remains of the Babylonian Empire. In 1951, William Wilson\rquote 
s radio observations of the 21-centimeter line of hydrogen allowed for the first direct observations of the spiral arms of the galaxy. In 1907, Thomas began his study of genetic mechanisms in }{\i\f5\fs18 Drosophilia}{\f5\fs18 
, work which would win him the Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology in 1933. FTP, give the common last name, shared by the protagonist of Mark Twain's }{\i\f5\fs18 A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court}{\f5\fs18 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Morgan}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul de Morgan}{\f5\fs18  on the early buzz)
\par 
\par 4. He is mentioned in I Samuel under his other name of Jerubbaal, but otherwise only appears in chapters 6 through 9 of another book of the B
ible. After becoming king, he ruled for forty years and had 70 sons, though his seventy-first, Abimelech, tried to succeed him as ruler and was killed. FTP, identify this fifth of the 12 judges of Israel, who reduced his army from 32,000 men to just 300 b
efore driving out the Midianites, a leader who gave his name to the Christian Commercial Men\rquote s Association of America, a group best known for distributing Bibles.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Gideon}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 5. He was almost killed at Borki when he insisted that his train go faster an
d it derailed, and it was said that he saved the lives of his wife and children by supporting the roof of his saloon car on his shoulders until they could escape. Shortly after he came to power, he published an Imperial Manifesto written by his tutor Kons
tantin Pobedonostsev which promised to defend the aristocracy, and his reign saw the creation of the Land Captains and the signing of the Reinsurance Treaty with Germany. FTP, name this Russian ruler, who died of Bright\rquote 
s disease in 1894, the penultimate tsar who came to power when his father, Alexander II, was assassinated.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Alexander III
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 6. After the protagonist's partner is killed, he joins the Homeless Underground led by Bertha. His life is saved by Doctor Maine Lazarus, a renegade from OCP, and
 the film ends with his victory over a ninja cyborg employed by the evil Kanemitsu. FTP, identify this 1993 film, which starred Nancy Allen, Rip Torn, and Robert John Burke, who replaced Peter Weller in the role of Alex J. Murphy, a Detroit policeman who 
is turned into a cyborg.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Robocop 3
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 7. He is the title character of Benjamin Disraeli\rquote s last novel, in which his twin sister Myra Pitt Ferrars marries the Foreign Secretary. He is also the title character of a 1588 comedy by John Lyly, who is encha
nted by Dipsas after abandoning Tellus for Cynthia. FTP, give the common name of these literary characters, which is also the title of a poem in four books published in 1818 which begins \'93A thing of beauty is a joy forever\'94
 and was written by John Keats.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Endymion}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
8. The earliest tests of this theory will come when Fermilab's TeVatron comes on-line this year, but it is expected that the strongest measurements will be done by the Large Hadron Collider at CERN when it starts running in 2005.  Develop
ed in 1971 both in a standard field theory context and as a necessary result of introducing fermions into string theory, the current limits on the predictions for this theory come from the energy scale at which the electroweak and strong forces unify.  In
 
this theory, each standard model fermion has an associated boson with it and vice versa, but, because this theory is broken at a high energy level, these partner products have much greater masses than the particles we observe.  FTP, name this theory in wh
ich squarks, sleptons and gluinos partner up with their more mundane quarks, leptons and gluons.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul supersymmetry}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par 9. They are often heard today in an arrangement for modern orchestra by Bernardino Molinari. They appear as the first works in the composer's Opus 8, collectively known as }{\i\f5\fs18 The Trial of Harmony and Invention}{\f5\fs18 
, and the composer wrote sonnets for each of them which explain the program of the music. FTP, identify this group of four concerti grossi, which depict birds singing, a hunting scene, and a walk on ice, the most famous works of Antonio Vivaldi.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Four Seasons}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Le }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Quatro Staggioni}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 10. The Ga
uss-Markov theorem describes the ordinary method of this as BLUE. In the case of perfect multicollinearity the variances and standard errors of the betas are infinite, and in the case of heteroskedasticity (het-er-o-ske-das-tis-it-ee) the ordinary method 
i
s no longer perfectly efficient. FTP, name this method used by economists and statisticians to achieve the best linear unbiased estimates of the average values of a predicted variable on the basis of known values of other variables, which involves minimiz
ing a certain function of the residual differences.
\par \tab Answer: Ordinary }{\f5\fs18\ul least squares}{\f5\fs18  regression (prompt on }{\f5\fs18\ul regression}{\f5\fs18 ; accept }{\f5\fs18\ul OLS}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 11. Collections of them include Setcho\rquote s }{\i\f5\fs18 Blue Cliff Records}{\f5\fs18  and the }{\i\f5\fs18 Gateless Barrier}{\f5\fs18  of Mumon Ekai. In the eighteenth century,
 a Japanese priest named Hakuin made a formal course of training out of them which is now used in the Rinzai school. FTP, identify this term, which derives from the Chinese for \'93public record\'94 or \'93legal precedent\'94
 and denotes exercises designed to expose the limitations of the mind and prepare the way for satori in Zen Buddhism, famous examples of which include \'93What was your face before you were born?\'94 and \'93What is the sound of one hand clapping?\'94

\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul koan}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par 12. Her husband suppressed the rebellion of Quietus for Gallienus and received the title \'93Governor of the East\'94
 in return. After he was murdered in 267, she became regent for their son Vaballathus, but her proclamation of the boy as emperor antagonized Aurelian, who defeated her army at Immae and E
mesa before capturing her as she tried to cross the Euphrates. FTP, identify this second wife of Odenathus, who died peacefully in Tivoli after the Romans defeated Palmyra.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Zenobia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 13. Bismarck was so impressed by a letter this man wrote to }{\i\f5\fs18 The Times}{\f5\fs18  during the Franco-Prussian War that the Prussian Order of Merit was awarded to him. His last book, }{\i\f5\fs18 The Early Kings of Norway}{\f5\fs18 
, appeared in 1875, and his other historical works include }{\i\f5\fs18 Past and Present}{\f5\fs18 , a biography of Frederick the Great, and his enormous history of the French Revolution. FTP, identify this English writer, whose best known works include }
{\i\f5\fs18 Signs of the Times}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 On Heroes, Hero-Worship and the Heroic in History}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Sartor Resartus}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Carlyle}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 14. The manager of a French sugar be
et processing factory discovered the first one in 1833 when he was able to separate it from malt extract.  The second example was discovered three years later, when Ambrose Schwann was able to demonstrate that adding an extract from stomach lining worked 
m
uch better than hydrochloric acid alone in digesting meat.  The term for these substances was finally coined in 1878 by German physiologist Wilhelm Kuhne whose vitalist predisposition led him to believe that the ability to cause fermentation was a propert
y of living material only.  FTP, diastase and pepsin are examples of this class of substances, which act as catalysts for cellular reactions.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul enzyme}{\f5\fs18 s }{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 15. It begins as the Sinqu River and is also known as the Gariep River before it empties into th
e Alexander Bay. The Oxbow irrigation scheme is located near its headwaters in the Lesotho Highlands, and after flowing west across the veld it forms part of the southern border of the Kalahari. FTP, identify this river, the sixth longest in Africa and th
e longest south of the Tropic of Capricorn, which forms the boundary between Namibia and South Africa and shares its name with a province of South Africa and former free state.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Orange}{\f5\fs18  River
\par 
\par 16. Treaties concluded during the war included Travensal, which indemnified the Duke of Holstein; Altranstadt, by which Augustus broke his pact with the Tsar; and the treaty of the Pruth, which gave Azov back to the Porte. After the war\rquote 
s instigator was killed on an expedition at Friedrichshall, his sister U
lrika Eleonora took power, after which the Riksdag wrote a new constitution and the war ended with the treaties of Stockholm. FTP, identify this conflict, which ended Swedish supremacy in the Baltic, remembered for the battles of Narva and Poltava, at whi
ch the Russians defeated Charles XII.
\par \tab Answer: the Great }{\f5\fs18\ul Northern}{\f5\fs18  War
\par 
\par 17. He first became known in England through Joseph Smith, who sold his collection of this artist's work to George III, and in 1745 he moved to England, where he did a number of painting
s of London and country houses. He prepared for his work by using a camera obscura to capture every detail of the scene, producing such paintings as }{\i\f5\fs18 Stonemason's Yard}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 View of San Cristoforo}{\f5\fs18 
. FTP, identify this Venetian artist, best known for his panoramic paintings of his native city.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Canaletto}{\f5\fs18  or Antonio }{\f5\fs18\ul Canale}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 18. He first published his work in 1811, but it went largely ign
ored for nearly fifty years until it received the endorsement of Stanislao Cannizzaro at the first international scientific conference, convened in Karlsruhe by Friedrich Kekule.  Following his hypothesis, he demonstrated the error in Dalton's contention 
that water consisted of a single atom each of hydrogen and oxygen and correctly deduced the diatomic nature of oxygen and nitrogen.  This also led to his creation of the term }{\i\f5\fs18 molecule}{\f5\fs18 
 from the Latin for "small masses".  FTP, name this Italian physicist whose hypothesis held that all gases at a given temperature, pressure and volume had the same number of particles.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Amedeo }{\f5\fs18\ul Avogadro}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. Duff Green, the editor of the United States Telegraph, was initially a member, but he was ousted in favor of Francis Blair, who founded the Washington Globe. William Lewis and Andrew Donelson were members, as was Amos Kendall, who was named fourth aud
itor of the Treasury. FTP, identify this group, whose other members included John Eaton and the secretary of state, Martin Van Buren, which provided advice to President Jackson and has given its name to similar groups of informal advisors.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Kitchen Cabinet
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 20. In the opening chapter, "In the Bronx," the protagonist is picked up by a truant officer when he goes to the zoo with Nicky Black and Scalzo. Characters in the novel include David Ferrie, a homosexual who tries to rape the main character; 
Nicholas Branch, the Curator; and Edwin Walker, whom the protagonist fails to murder. FTP, identify this 1988 novel, which ends with the protagonist's mother Marguerite standing by her son's grave on November 25, a recreation of the life of Lee Harvey Osw
ald written by Don DeLillo.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Libra}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par OT1. It emerged from three small villages, Osu, James Town, and Ussher Town, and first rose to prominence when the colonial capital was moved from Cape Coast to it in 1877. The Odaw and Densu rivers supply the city\rquote 
s water, and the disease kwashiorkor was named at its Korle Bu hospital in 1933. FTP, identify this city, whose role as a major port has been supplanted by Tema, and whose name comes from an Akan word for black ants, the largest city in, and capital of,
 Ghana.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Accra}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 OT2. He achieved his first success with the short story "Pearl," and his novel about Galician life, }{\i\f5\fs18 
Yoshe Kalb}{\f5\fs18 , appeared the year before he came to America in 1933. Philip Roth took the title of a 1943 novel he wrote about a German family forced to flee the Nazis for the title of Nathan Zuckerman's novel }{\i\f5\fs18 Carnovsky}{\f5\fs18 
. FTP, name this Polish-born writer, best known for a 1936 novel about two siblings from Lodz, }{\i\f5\fs18 The Brothers Ashkenazi}{\f5\fs18 , whose more famous younger brother also wrote novels in Yiddish about Jewish life.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Israel Joshua }{\f5\fs18\ul Singer}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT3. In the 1670s, he wrote a verse autobiography in Latin and translated the }{\i\f5\fs18 Iliad}{\f5\fs18  and the }{\i\f5\fs18 Odyssey}{\f5\fs18  into English. He tutored the future Charles II in mathematics, a connection which came in handy a
s Charles later dismissed a bill directed against him, when his enemies claimed he was responsible for the Plague and the Great Fire because of his atheism. FTP, name this author of }{\i\f5\fs18 Elements of Law Natural and Politic}{\f5\fs18 
, which argued for a monarchical government, as did his most famous work, 1651's }{\i\f5\fs18 Leviathan}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Hobbes}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par The narrator wakes up at ten in the morning, puts on his Gucci underwear and Kangoal hat, and, when leaving his house, bumps into his girlfriend Sally, who is from the Valley. Als
o with Sally is her mother, who proceeds to attack Sally in an effort to win the narrator\rquote s affections, but he ultimately rebuffs her, saying that he already has a wrinkled pussy, and doesn\rquote 
t need another. FTP, name this rap story-song, about a guy who just likes to party without bothering anybody, with a vocal track by Doug E. Fresh and rhymes by Slick Rick.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul La-Di-Da-Di}{\f5\fs18  \page }{\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Boni by Andrew Yaphe
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Identify these Pulitzer Prize winning American plays, FTP each. If you need the name of the author, you'll receive 5 points.
\par 1. (10 points) Set in a New Jersey living room, this play features George and Maggie, their children Gladys and Henry, and their maid Sabina, as they face numerous disasters.
\par (5 points) Thornton Wilder
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Skin of Our Teeth}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) In this play, Nancy and Charlie are on a picnic by the ocean when they meet Leslie and Sarah, two enormous lizards.
\par (5 points) Edward Albee
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Seascape}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) It features Vince, who returns to his family farm in Illinois with his girlfriend Shelly after being absent for 6 years.
\par (5 points) Sam Shepard
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Buried Child}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. Identify these battles of the Thirty Years War, FTP each.
\par 1. At this battle of November 8, 1620, Christian of Anhalt defeated the forces of Frederick V, and Protestantism was wiped out in Bohemia.
\par \tab Answer: the Battle of the }{\f5\fs18\ul White Mountain}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Tilly captured this city on May 20, 1631, and his crazy troops burned it to the ground, except for the cathedral.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Magdeburg}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. On November 16, 1632, Bernhard of Saxe-Weimar won this battle for the Swedes after his commander was killed.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul L\'9ftzen}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 3.  Answer the following about the divisions of the Earth\rquote s interior for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This Croatian geologist suggested the existence of the mantle based upon his studies of an earthquake in the Balkans in 1909.  The break between the crust and the mantle is named for him.
\par \tab Answer: Andrija }{\f5\fs18\ul Mohorovicic}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (15 points) The sharp discontinuity between the mantle and the core is named for this American geologist who first suggested the presence of a liquid core with a radius of 4600 kilometers in 1914.
\par \tab Answer: Beno }{\f5\fs18\ul Gutenberg}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  (10 points) Like Mohorovicic, Gutenberg\rquote s theories concerning the Earth\rquote 
s core were motivated by observations of earthquakes.  Specifically, he observed that this type of wave was not transmitted through the center of the Earth at all, suggesting that it was liquid. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul transverse}{\f5\fs18  waves (also accept }{\f5\fs18\ul s-waves}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 4. Identify these Doctors of the Church, FTP each.
\par 1. This Bishop of Milan excommunicated Theodosius and opposed Arianism, and is one of the four original doctors of the Western Church.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ambrose}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This doctor of the Eastern Church was a good friend of Gregory Nazianzus and Julian the Apostate. He served as bishop of Caesarea, but gave up worldly things at the behest of his sister Macrina and retired to a monastery.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Basil}{\f5\fs18  
\par 3. This \'93seraphic virgin\'94 wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 The Interior Castle}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Way to Perfection}{\f5\fs18 , and became one of the two female Doctors of the Church in 1970.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Teresa}{\f5\fs18  of \'e7vila
\par 
\par 5. Identify these English artists on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. (10 points) His first important landscape was 1748's }{\i\f5\fs18 The Charterhouse}{\f5\fs18 , and his rural scenes include }{\i\f5\fs18 The Harvest Wagon}{\f5\fs18 .
\par (5 points) He's better known for }{\i\f5\fs18 The Blue Boy}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Gainsborough
\par }{\f5\fs18 2. (10 points) His most ambitious works include }{\i\f5\fs18 Satan Summoning Up His Legions}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Kemble as Hamlet}{\f5\fs18 .
\par (5 points) The successor to Reynolds as the Painter-in-Ordinary to the King, he is best known for his portraits, including }{\i\f5\fs18 The Red Boy}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Lawrence}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) His works include etchings for Cavafy's poems and Grimm's fairy tales, though one of his better known paintings is }{\i\f5\fs18 Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy}{\f5\fs18 .
\par (5 points) This contemporary artist is best known for his paintings of nude boys, who are often seen in swimming pools.
\par \tab Answer: David }{\f5\fs18\ul Hockney}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 6. Identify these novels by Balzac, FTP each.
\par 1. This 1847 work depicts a musician who is cheated by his relatives when they discover that his art collection is worth a fortune, and is often contrasted with }{\i\f5\fs18 Cousin Bette}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Cousin Pons}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Le }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Cousin Pons}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. It tells the story of Eugene de Rastignac's (rass-teen-YAK) arrival in Paris and the title character's difficulties with two ungrateful daughters.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Father Goriot}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Old Goriot}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Le }{\i\f5\fs18\ul P\u143\'8fre Goriot}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This sequel to }{\i\f5\fs18 Lost Illusions}{\f5\fs18  features Vautrin (voh-TRAN), in disguise as Father Carlos Herrera, and his attempts to make Lucien de Rubempr\'8e (roo-bom-PRAY) a member of the aristocracy.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 A }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Harlot High and Low}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Splendors and Miseries of Courtesans}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Splendeurs et mis\u143\'8fres des courtisanes
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 7. Identify these midwesterners who served as Vice-President FTP each. If you need the name of the President under whom he served, you will only receive 5 points.
\par 1. (10 points) The first vice-president to preside over a cabinet meeting, he served as governor of Indiana before winning higher office.
\par (5 points) Woodrow Wilson
\par \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Marshall}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) A one-time majority leader of the Senate, he was a favorite son nominee from Kansas when he was selected as a vice-presidential candidate.
\par (5 points) Herbert Hoover
\par \tab Answer: Charles }{\f5\fs18\ul Curtis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) He served in the Senate from Indiana before his vice-presidential term, and was Charles Evans Hughes's running mate in 1916.
\par (5 points) Teddy Roosevelt
\par \tab Answer: Charles }{\f5\fs18\ul Fairbanks}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 8. Answer the following about gravitational lensing, FTP each.
\par 1. Due to their great distance and their incredible luminosity, most of the known examples of strong lensing involve multiple images of these objects including the first lens discovered in 1979.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul quasar}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 2.  Jacqueline Hewitt discovered the first example of this lensing arrangement in 1988.  It results from a near perfect alignment of source quasar, lensing galaxy and observer as well as a spherically symmetric lensing potential.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Einstein Ring}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Perhaps the dramatic manifestation of the effect, this type of lensing produces a transient brightening of a background object due to the passage of a foreground ob
ject across the line of sight.  The cause of this magnification is the fact that the lensed objects retain the same surface brightness but increase in apparent size.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: microlensing (prompt on }{\f5\fs18\ul MACHO}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 9. A firm has the production function Y = ten times K to the 0.4 times L to the 0.6. (10K}{\f5\fs18\up6 (0.4)}{\f5\fs18 *L}{\f5\fs18\up6 (0.6)}{\f5\fs18 
) where K is production capital and L is the labor force. Answer these questions about this function, FTP each.
\par 1. What is this firm\rquote s marginal product of labor for any given amount of production capital?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul 6K}{\f5\fs18\ul\up6 (0.4)}{\f5\fs18  (}{\f5\fs18\ul six times K to the zero point four}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. What are all production functions of this form (that is, A times K to the alpha times L to the 1 minus alpha) called?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Cobb-Douglas}{\f5\fs18  production functions
\par 3. What would you call any points on the K, L plane for which the output, Y, is equal, despite differing values of K and L?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul isoquant}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par 10. Identify these works by Samuel Barber, FTP each.
\par 1. Originally entitled }{\i\f5\fs18 Serpent of the Heart}{\f5\fs18 , this ballet on a figure from Greek myth, introduced by Martha Graham in 1946, is better known by the name of its female protagonist.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Medea}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Barber's concerto in three movements for this instrument also premiered in 1946, when it was introduced by Raya Garbousva and the Boston Symphony.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul cello}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This symphonic poem, subtitled "Summer of 1915," is a setting of a work by James Agee, who lived in the titular city as a child.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Knoxville}{\i\f5\fs18 : Summer of 1915}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. Answer these questions about an English dramatist, FTP each.
\par 1. His first literary work was a novel, }{\i\f5\fs18 Incognita}{\f5\fs18 , and his late works include }{\i\f5\fs18 An Impossible Thing}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The Judgement of Paris}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Semele}{\f5\fs18 
, which was used by Handel as a libretto.
\par \tab Answer: William }{\f5\fs18\ul Congreve}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This 1700 comedy is considered Congreve\rquote s greatest work, and deals with Mirabell\rquote s attempts to marry Millamant.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Way of the World}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Samuel Johnson claimed that there were passages in this play, Congreve\rquote s only tragedy, which were better than anything in Shakespeare, though few have shared the opinion.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Mourning Bride}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12. Answer these questions about yoga, FTP each.
\par 1. The classic form of Yoga begins with the Yogasutra attributed to this grammarian, who lived around 200 B.C. Also known as raja yoga, it consists of four stages culminating in kaivalya, the liberation of the soul.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Patanjali}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. These are centers of energy which run from the base of the spine to the top of the head and are central to both hatha and kundalini yoga.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul chakra}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 3. In kundalini yoga, this is the term for total absorption in experience made possible when one\rquote s dormant energy is awakened and brought up to the highest chakra.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul samadhi}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 13. Answer the following about the early days of chemistry for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) In an effort to build their reputations, alchemists had taken to speaking in metaphor and thus kept their results from spreading rapidly.  That all changed in 1787 
when this French chemist established the standard chemical nomenclature still used today.
\par \tab Answer: Antoine-Laurent }{\f5\fs18\ul Lavoisier}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (15 points) Reputation was important enough that the alchemist who discovered sulphuric acid in 1300 is unknown.  In order to le
nd credence to his discovery, he attributed his work to this Arabian alchemist who had been dead for over five hundred years.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Geber}{\f5\fs18   (also accept Jabir ibn }{\f5\fs18\ul Hayyan}{\f5\fs18 ) 
\par 3. (10 points) Geber's own reputation with Europeans rested in part on his discovery of this acid, the strongest known until the False Geber's discovery, while searching for the elixir of life.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul acetic}{\f5\fs18  acid
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par 14. Everybody knows about the Star Trek movies, but how familiar are you with the other films of William Shatner? Identify these films in which he appeared, FTP each.
\par 1. Shatner's first film was this 1958 literary adaptation, in which he played Alexey and Yul Brynner played his brother Dmitri.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Brothers Karamazov}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Shatner appeared as Captain Kirk in this 1991 comedy sequel, which also featured Pam Grier and George Carlin.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This 1977 movie stars Shatner as a veterinarian who discovers that killer tarantulas are running amuck in Arizona.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Kingdom of the Spiders}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. Identify these political figures from the Revolutionary War period, FTP each.
\par 1. He died in 1783, after serving as the first president of the Congress of the Confederation.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Hanson}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This president of the Second Continental Congress became the first governor of Massachusetts in 1780.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Hancock}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This planter from Charleston also served as president of the Continental Congress. He was imprisoned in the Tower of London after being captured while en route to negotiate with the Dutch, but was exchanged for Cornwallis.
\par \tab Answer: Henry }{\f5\fs18\ul Laurens}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 16. Answer these questions about a German novelist, FTP each.
\par 1. His works include }{\i\f5\fs18 The Spell}{\f5\fs18 , in which a figure modeled on Hitler comes to dominate a village, }{\i\f5\fs18 The Unknown Quantity}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Innocents}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Hermann }{\f5\fs18\ul Broch}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Hermann Broch's best known work may be this trilogy, consisting of }{\i\f5\fs18 The Romantic}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The Anarchist}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Realist}{\f5\fs18 , which depicts European life from 1888 to 1918.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The}{\f5\fs18  }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Sleepwalkers}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Die }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Schlafwandler}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. In a 1945 novel, Broch depicted the last day of this Roman poet.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Virgil}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18 The Death of Virgil}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 17. Answer the following from the world of particle physics, FTP each.
\par 1. Italian scientists at DAMA released news this week about the possible detection of this type of particle, recently in vogue as a candidate for the non-baryonic component of the dark matter in the universe.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul WIMP}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 2. Like the neutrino, WIMPs are theorized to interact with normal matter via the weak force and th
rough gravity by virtue of the fact that they have mass.  Unlike neutrinos, they are expected to have masses much greater than the bounds on the neutrino mass measured by this Japanese experiment in 1998. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Super Kamiokande}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. If neutrinos do have mass, then they are no longer exact solutions to the Weyl equations and must therefore undergo this three-letter effect involving the oscillation between flavor states.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul M}{\f5\fs18 ikheyev-}{\f5\fs18\ul S}{\f5\fs18 mirnov-}{\f5\fs18\ul W}{\f5\fs18 olfenstein effect }{
\i\f5\fs18\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 18. Identify these lesser known works by John Bunyan, FTP each.
\par 1. Published in 1666, it tells the story of Bunyan\rquote s spiritual awakening after reading two devotional books belonging to his wife.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This 1680 allegory is a dialogue between Mr. Wiseman and Mr. Attentive, who discuss the affairs of the title character, whose rich wife dies of despair after he treats her horribly.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Life and Death of Mr. Badman}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Bunyan\rquote s last major work, this 1682 allegory deals with an attack led by Emmanuel, the son of King Shaddai, on the city of Mansoul that has been captured by Diabolus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Holy War}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. Given some features of Australia, identify the Australian state in which they would be found, FTP each. If you need the name of a city in that state, you'll only receive 5 points.
\par 1. (10 points) Lake Eyre and the Gawler Ranges
\par (5 points) Adelaide
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul South Australia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) Lake Amadeus and Arnhem Land
\par (5 points) Darwin
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Northern Territory}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) Lake Disappointment and the Kimberley Plateau
\par (5 points) Perth
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Western Australia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 20. Pharaohs! Identify these, FTP each.
\par 1. The first Pharaoh of the twentieth dynasty, he defeated the Peoples of the Sea.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Rameses III}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. He defeated the Hittites at Kadesh, and built the temple of Karnak and Abu Simbel.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Rameses II}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This founder of the third dynasty is best remembered for his step pyramid at Saqqara.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Zoser}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Answer these questions about Qatar, FTP each.
\par 1. This gulf forms the west coast of Qatar and separates Qatar from Saudi Arabia.
\par \tab Answer: the Gulf of }{\f5\fs18\ul Bahrain}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. What is the capital of Qatar?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Doha}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This island in the Gulf of Bahrain has been a bone of contention between Qatar and Bahrain since Qatar occupied Fasht-al Dibal, a coral reef the Bahrainis were reclaiming from the sea.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hawar}{\f5\fs18  Island}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }}