{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f194\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f195\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f197\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f198\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f199\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f200\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f201\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f210\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f211\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f213\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f214\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f215\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext15 Word4095Null;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Plain Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Questions by Berkeley}{\author Ryan Scranton}
{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo3\dy7\hr5\min40}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy7\hr6\min7}{\version7}{\edmins27}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords4267}{\nofchars24323}{\nofcharsws29870}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Tossups by Berkeley
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Some of its final sections include "From Noon to Starry Night," "Songs of Parting," and two annexes entitled "Sands at Seventy" and "Goodbye My Fancy.\'94
 It is generally read today in the ninth or "Deathbed Edition" which appeared in 1892, 37 years after the book was first published. FTP, name this collection which includes \'93A Passage to India,\'94 \'93O Captain! My Captain!\'94 \'93
Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking,\'94 and \'93Song of Myself.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Leaves of Grass}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
2. The first to describe this idea was a German astronomer in 1823, who had led a team that discovered the asteroids Pallas, Vesta and Juno twenty years earlier.  The first proposed solution to the problem
 was that space was filled with dust, which would attenuate the light from distant objects, leaving only the nearby stars visible.  This ignored the fact that dust re-radiates energy thermally and the problem remained unresolved until the establishment of
 an evolving, expanding universe one hundred years later. FTP, name this paradox which states that, in a static infinite universe, the entire night sky should be as bright as the sun.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Olbers}{\f5\fs18 ' paradox

\par 
\par 3. He was appointed Cardinal of Albano by Pope 
Gregory X largely as a result of the talent he displayed for reconciling opposing views when he settled the dispute between the spirituals and the Relaxati. An eloquent advocate of mendicant monastic orders, his notable works included the mystical treatis
e }{\i\f5\fs18 Journey to the Mind of God}{\f5\fs18  and a 1263 biography of Francis of Assisi. FTP, identify this namesake of an American university, the "seraphic doctor" who is considered the second founder of the Franciscan order.
\par \tab Answer: Saint (John) }{\f5\fs18\ul Bonaventure}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 4. As a res
ult of glacial melting and the monsoon season, the level of this river in the late summer is as much as 30 feet higher than its level in January, requiring some of its ports, such as Herzada, to have separate high- and low-water landing points. With a nam
e deriving from the Sanskrit for \'93elephant river,\'94 it forms from the confluence of Mali and Nmai rivers, passes through three gorges before reaching Mandalay, and empties into the Andaman Sea. FTP, name this major river of Myanmar.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Irrawaddy}{\f5\fs18  River 
\par 
\par 5. In 1994, this order was granted Permanent Observer status in the UN. In 1798, Napoleon expelled them from the home they had occupied since it had been granted to them in 1530 by Charles V of Spain; in 1834, they found a new home in Rome, where their G
rand Magistracy enjoys extraterritorial rights. Long known for doing hospital work during wartime, their eight-pointed cross is widely recognized. FTP, name this order, possibly best-known for the story in a Dashiell Hammett novel about the jewel-encruste
d falcon they sent to Charles V.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Knights}{\f5\fs18  of }{\f5\fs18\ul Malta}{\f5\fs18  (or the }{\f5\fs18\ul Order}{\f5\fs18  of }{\f5\fs18\ul Malta}{\f5\fs18  or the }{\f5\fs18\ul Order}{\f5\fs18  of }{\f5\fs18\ul St. John}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 6. His critical works include }{\i\f5\fs18 The Perpetual Orgy}{\f5\fs18 , a study of }{\i\f5\fs18 Madame Bovary}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Garc\rquote a Marquez: Story of a God-Killer}{\f5\fs18 . His story }{\i\f5\fs18 The Cubs}{\f5\fs18  depicts a 
teenager who gets castrated by accident, while a number of his early novels deal with the military, including }{\i\f5\fs18 Captain Pantoja}{\f5\fs18  (pan-TOE-ha)}{\i\f5\fs18  and the Special Service}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Conversation in the Cathedral}
{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Time of the Hero}{\f5\fs18 . FTP, name this Peruvian writer, best known for }{\i\f5\fs18 In Praise of the Stepmother}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The War of the End of the World}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Jorge Mario Pedro }{\f5\fs18\ul Vargas Llosa}{\f5\fs18  (YO-suh)
\par 
\par 7. Seven years after the book was published, Shigeru Nakayama (she-GAY-ru nah-kah-YAH-mah) conv
inced the author to write a "Postscript--1969" which suggests a project for sociological study of a certain kind of community. The introduction considers a "role for history," and subsequent chapters take on anomaly, crisis, and the nature and necessity o
f the titular occurrences, which appear as invisible revolutionary changes in world view. FTP, identify this book, first published in 1962 by MIT professor Thomas Kuhn, which introduced the concept of \'93paradigm shifts." 
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Structure of Scientific Revolutions}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 8. This kingdom arose after the Cimmerians destroyed Phrygia, and according to legend was initially ruled by Gyges. According to Herodotus, it was culturally similar to Greece, and it played an important part in the rise of Greek commerce, th
anks mainly to its establishment of permanent retail shops and its invention of gold and silver coins. FTP, name this kingdom which reached its height under Alyattes, had its capital at Sardis, and was destroyed when Cyrus the Great defeated Croesus.

\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Lydia
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 9. His lost works include }{\i\f5\fs18 On the Calendar}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 On Sphere Making}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Catoptrica}{\f5\fs18 , a book on optics. His extant works include 
}{\i\f5\fs18 Quadrature of the Parabola}{\f5\fs18 , which gives a formula for calculating the area of parabola segments; }{\i\f5\fs18 The Sand-Reckoner}{\f5\fs18 , which includes a system for expressing really big numbers; and }{\i\f5\fs18 On Spirals}{
\f5\fs18 , which features the spiral now named for him. FTP, identify this Greek mathematician, whose other works include }{\i\f5\fs18 The Method}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 On Floating Bodies}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Measurement of the Circle}{\f5\fs18 
, which gave pi its first exact value, who was killed in 212 B.C. during the capture of Syracuse when he was drawing a figure in the sand.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Archimedes
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 10. He went to his grave believing that his first symphony, }{\i\f5\fs18 The Bells of Zlonice}{\f5\fs18 , was lost. Originally,
 his symphonies were numbered one through five, but his symphonies were renumbered once his earliest four symphonies were published after his death. FTP, name this Czech composer of the }{\i\f5\fs18 Dumky Trio }{\f5\fs18 and }{\i\f5\fs18 Airs from Moravia
}{\f5\fs18 , whose most famous work is his ninth symphony, }{\i\f5\fs18 From the New World}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Antonin }{\f5\fs18\ul Dv\emdash r\'89k}{\f5\fs18  (DVOR-zhak)
\par 
\par 11. The narrator begins by telling us that he sat down to write it in Freising on the Isar on May 27, 1943, three years after the death of the subject of the story. Two years after the novel was published, the author wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 
The Genesis of a Novel}{\f5\fs18 , which described its composition, and an Author's Note at the end of the work discloses that the system described in Chapter 22 is derived from the }{\i\f5\fs18 Harmonielehre}{\f5\fs18 
 (har-mo-neel-AIR-uh) of Arnold Schonberg. FTP, identify this novel, narrated by Serenus Zeitblom, which tells the story of German composer Adrian Leverk\'9fhn, a work by Thomas Mann.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Doctor Faustus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12. A flinty, black mineral, in ancient times it w
as known as the touchstone. If pure gold were scratched on it, it would leave yellow marks, while gold mixed with copper would leave red marks, thus giving a way of assessing the purity of gold. A metamorphic rock, it is composed of laminated, often flaky
 parallel layers of chiefly micaceous minerals. FTP, identify this rock, whose name comes from the Latin for "split", and sounds like a bad word.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Schist}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par 13. When he died, e.e. cummings said "The only man, woman, or child who wrote a simple declarat
ive sentence with seven grammatical errors is dead." This man knew he was a bad speaker; indeed, he coined the word "bloviate," meaning "to go at great length about nothing." Ironically, it was a misuse of the English language that propelled him to his cr
owning achievement, as his call for "a return to normalcy" galvanized public opinion during his 1920 campaign for the Presidency. FTP, name this President, who died in office in 1923. 
\par \tab Answer: Warren Gamaliel }{\f5\fs18\ul Harding}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 14. Her stepfather married her off to 
a poor farmer, but they never had sex and Apollo later commanded her to marry a friend of her brother, by whom she was the mother of Medon and Strophius. Also known as Laodice (la-oh-DEE-chay), in one version of her story her sister Chrysothemis unsuccess
fully persuades her to forgive her mother to end her suffering. FTP, name this mythical Greek woman, sister of Orestes and vengeful daughter of Agamemnon.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Electra}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. The last name is the same: William was the Secretary of the Navy under Cleveland under whom the USS }{\i\f5\fs18 Maine}{\f5\fs18 
 was built; Hassler was an American mathematician who, by proving his eponymous embedding theorem in 1936, initiated the study of the field of differential topology; and Josiah was an explorer for whom a 14,494 foot mountain is nam
ed. FTP, give this name also shared by the man who in 1794 secured a patent for the cotton gin.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Whitney
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 16. It is a drama in three acts based on an actual case in 19th century Edinburgh that was detailed in the essay \'93Closed Doors, or The Great Drumsheugh Case\'94 in }{\i\f5\fs18 Bad Companions }{\f5\fs18 
by William Roughead. The story concerns an attempt by Mary Tilford, a student at a New England boarding school, to explain to her rich, indulgent grandmother why she has to run away from school. She accuses the women who o
wn and run the school of being lesbians, which ends up closing the school. FTP, what is this play written by Lillian Hellman?
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Children\rquote s Hour}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 17. His dissertation stemmed from the work of Frank Knight and studied the role of expectations in price formation. A few years later, he made the distinction between }{\i\f5\fs18 ex ante}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 ex post}{\f5\fs18 
 savings and investment contained in his }{\i\f5\fs18 Monetary Equilibrium}{\f5\fs18 , but he later shifted focus to applied economics and poverty. FTP, name this member of the Stockholm school and author of }{\i\f5\fs18 Beyond the Welfare State}{
\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy}{\f5\fs18  who shared the 1974 Nobel Prize.
\par \tab Answer: Gunnar }{\f5\fs18\ul Myrdal}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. This city, the capital of Sogdiana in the 4th century B.C., lay uninhabited from 1720 to 1770 but later recovered to serve, from 1924 to 1936, as capital of a Soviet state. In the older part of the city, one can still find three Islamic schools, on
e of which was headed by astronomer Ulugh Beg, the grandson of the man who ruled out of the city after it achieved independence from the Mongols in 1365. FTP, name this endpoint of a literary \'93golden journey,\'94
 located in present-day Uzbekistan, the capital of the empire of Tamerlane.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Samarkand}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. They were purchased in 1806 by British diplomat Thomas Bruce to prevent them from being destroyed by Turkish forces or to adorn his Scottish country home, depending on which story you believe. They inclu
de a depiction of the Greek god Dionysus, but they are most well known for portraying men on horseback celebrating the goddess Athena. FTP, identify this collection of ancient sculptures that has been the focus of a long-running feud between the British a
nd Greek governments.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Elgin Marbles}{\f5\fs18  (also accept the }{\f5\fs18\ul Parthenon Marbles}{\f5\fs18  or the }{\f5\fs18\ul Parthenon Frieze}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 20. This compound has chemical formula CH}{\f5\fs18\dn6 3}{\f5\fs18 COCOOH and is the simplest of the keto acids. Microorganisms use it in the synthesis of leucine, valine, phenylalanine, and alanine, and, in the absence of vitamin B}{\f5\fs18\dn6 1}{
\f5\fs18 , it accumulates in tissues along with lactic acid, causing some of the symptoms of beriberi. FTP, name this compound whose ionized form is converted into acetyl coenzyme A if oxygen is present a
fter it has been produced as the end product of glycolysis.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Pyruvic}{\f5\fs18  acid (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul pyruvate}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par OT1. This type of orchestra uses colotomic structure and consists of two sets of intruments, with one set tuned to a five-note scale and the other to a sev
en-note scale. It sometimes accompanies theatrical performances, and is characterized by polyphony, with the main melody played either by a stringed instrument or a bamboo flute, and its percussion instruments include xylophones, metallophones, and gongs.
 FTP, name this orchestra indigenous to Bali and Java.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Gamelan
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 OT2. Euler proved that the sum of the reciprocals of the prime numbers diverges by using his discovery that this function may be written as the product over all prime }{\i\f5\fs18 p}{\f5\fs18  of 1 over 1 minus }{\i\f5\fs18 p}{\f5\fs18 
 to the negative }{\i\f5\fs18 x}{\f5\fs18 . It was not until 1859 that its namesake extended its domain to the whole complex plane, and since then much attention has been paid to the values it takes in the so-called \'93critical strip\'94
 of complex numbers whose real parts lie between zero and one. FTP, name this function, defined as the sum as }{\i\f5\fs18 n}{\f5\fs18  goes from 1 to infinity of 1 over }{\i\f5\fs18 n}{\f5\fs18  to the }{\i\f5\fs18 z}{\f5\fs18 
, which is the subject of the celebrated Riemann hypothesis.
\par \tab Answer: Riemann }{\f5\fs18\ul zeta}{\f5\fs18  function
\par 
\par OT3. After Julius Caesar defeated Juba I at Thaspus
, the Roman army in this region stationed itself at Lambessa. The region was conquered by the Vandals in 429, but shortly before that it had become the center of the Donatist movement. During the long reign of Masinissa, it was initially allied with nearb
y Carthage in the Second Punic War but later switched sides. FTP, name this region, whose boundaries coincided approximately with those of modern Algeria.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Numidia
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par He was charged with heresy while in his 60s, but apparently retracted each of the 28
 propositions attributed to him which were condemned by Pope John XXII in 1329. He identified the stages of spiritual evolution as dissimilarity, similarity, identity, and breakthrough, maintaining that detachment allows one to evolve from pure nothingnes
s to a state in which God exists only when one invokes Him. FTP, name this most noted of the medieval German mystics.
\par \tab Answer: Meister (Johannes) }{\f5\fs18\ul Eckhart}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Eckhart}{\f5\fs18  von Hochheim
\par 
\par It is headless and poised upright with spread wings at a galley prow, and soft
 folds of fabric are flattened against the body. Since the 1950 discovery of its open right hand, it was assumed that the figure's right arm was stretched high to announce the victory of a Rhodian naval victory in the 3rd or 2nd century BC. FTP, what is t
his world-famous statue found in the Louvre?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Winged Victory}{\f5\fs18  of Samothrace (or }{\f5\fs18\ul Victoire de Samothrace}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par Since the first experiments with this technology in 1946, rockets, cannons, aircraft, and ground generators have all been used for it. 
It was first used shortly after Schaefer and Langmuir discovered a way to form crystals in a supercooled body, although sodium chloride and calcium chloride have been used on non-supercooled bodies. FTP, name this technology which most commonly uses silve
r iodide or dry ice to form nuclei in clouds with the intent of preventing hail or inducing rain.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul cloud seeding}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Originally, they were farmers who left home in search of employment, with many ending up in the military. Today, the term refers to stu
dents who have failed their college or high school entrance examinations and are spending a year or two studying for the next round. FTP, what is this term, from the Japanese for "person cast on the waves", that refers to warriors without a master, that s
hares its name with a 1998 John Frankenheimer action film starring Robert DeNiro?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ronin}{\f5\fs18 
\par \page }{\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Boni by Berkeley
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Give the last names of the following parent-child pairs of scientists on a 10-5 basis:
\par 1. (10 points) Lazare (luh-ZAHR), also a prominent French Revolutionary statesman, wrote the 1803 book }{\i\f5\fs18 G\'8eom\'8etrie de Position}{\f5\fs18  which dealt with problems involving complex numbers.
\par (5 points) Lazare\rquote s son Sadi studied idealized heat engines and wrote the groundbreaking 1824 work }{\i\f5\fs18 Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Carnot}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) George, working at the University of Aberdeen, discovered electron diffraction independently of Davisson and Germer.
\par (5 points) George\rquote s father Joseph discovered the electron in 1897.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Thomson}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) Max was a German mathematician who proved an important result about the intersection of two algebraic curves in 1873.
\par (5 points) Max\rquote s daughter Emmy proved the correspondence between symmetries and conservation laws and became the most prominent female mathematician of the 20th century.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Noether}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following African geographical features, FTP each.
\par 1. This forms the boundary between the interior African plateau and the coastal regions. It also forms the boundary between South Africa and Mozambique.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Great Escarpment}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This desert on the Atlantic coast of Africa stretches from Angola to South Africa through the country to which it lends its name.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Namib}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Namibe}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The semiarid region stretching from Senegal to the Sudan which forms a transition between the Sahara to its north and the humid savannas to its south.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Sahel}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Sahil}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. Name the following musical instruments you probably won't find in a modern orchestra, FTP each. 
\par 1. Italian for "little goose", baked earth versions of this instrument were played in Egypt at least 5000 years ago. It has a bulbous shape with a blowing-hole and fingerholes. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ocarina}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This is a ram's-horn trumpet bent into a "J"-like shape and bearing inscriptions. It was most likely these that caused the destruction of Jericho. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Shofar}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Shofarot}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. In its most basic form, this stringed instrument consists merely of a stick, some strings parallel to it, and some frets to raise the strings away from the stick. Its most famous practitioner was Anton Karas, who provided the score for the film }{
\i\f5\fs18 The Third Man}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Zither}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 4. Identify the following plays of Eug\u143\'8fne Ionesco (ee-oh-ness-co), FTP each.
\par 1. This is his first play, which consists mainly of meaningless conversations between two couples that eventually deteriorates into babble.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Bald Soprano}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18 La }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Cantatrice Chauve}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. The 1951 play in which a professor uses the meanings he assigns to words to establish dominance over a female pupil.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Lesson}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18 La }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Le\u141\'8don}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 3. The 1952 play in which an old couple tries to spread their life story by inviting a vast crowd of guests. The guests never arrive, but, convinced that they have, the old people kill themselves.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Chairs}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18 Les }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Chaises}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 5. Answer the following about cryptography, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This kind of cipher is created by shifting each letter over by three, turning \lquote A\rquote  to \lquote D\rquote  and \lquote B\rquote  to \lquote E\rquote . For five, what is this cipher named for a famous Roman general? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Caesar}{\f5\fs18  cipher}{\f5\fs18\ul  }{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) One of the most famous cryptographic systems, it was broken first by the Polish, with the more advanced versions broken by the English, led by Alan Turing. What was this German system used in World War II? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Enigma }{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) This word, derived from the Greek word for \'93covered\'94 and \'93to write\'94, describes hidden communications. Examples include using invisible ink or encoding a message inside of the image of a JPEG file. For fifte
en, what is this five-syllable term? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Steganography}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 6. Answer these questions about the Roman army FTP each. 
\par 1. The Romans found the Greek phalanx unwieldy for fighting in the hills of Italy. So they developed this military unit which consisted of 120 men in 12 files and 10 ranks. Groups of 10 of these drew up for battle in three lines. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul maniple }{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. The Roman equivalent to a battalion, originally, this was the term for three maniples arranged in three lines. Under Augustus, the term was also referred to a group of 1,000 men responsible for fire and police protection in sections of Rome. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul cohort }{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The Roman legion chiefly used two weapons. One was a seven-foot javelin used for both throwing and thrusting, and the other was a twenty-inch cut-and-thrust sword with a broad, heavy blade. Name either for a final ten points.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul pilum}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul gladius}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 7. Identify the following late 19th century American novels FTP each from plot descriptions, or for 5 if you need the author.
\par 1. (10 points) The daughter of a brutal father and a drunken mother falls in love with a bartender, is disowned by her mother, and eventually commits suicide.
\par (5 points) Stephen Crane
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Maggie}{\i\f5\fs18 : A Girl of the Streets}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) An observer named Frowenfeld witnesses race conflicts and a feud between the De Grapions and the title family in New Orleans.
\par (5 points) George Washington Cable
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Grandissimes}{\i\f5\fs18 : A Story of Creole Life.}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) A Pennsylvania German moves his family to New York and buys his son Conrad a magazine in order to help him climb socially, only to see Conrad turn to radical poltics.
\par (5 points) William Dean Howells
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Hazard of New Fortunes}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following figures of Celtic mythology, FTP each:
\par 1. After being forced to marry Conchubar (CON-coo-bar), he gave her to Eoghan (OH-gan) and she killed herself by jumping out of a chariot.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Deirdre}{\f5\fs18  of the Sorrows
\par 2. The man, so large that he had to live in a tent because no house had ever been built large enough to contain him, who figures in the Mabinogion as the King of Britain and whose severed head brought his compatriots 80 years of fortune.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Bran}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The earth-goddess who lends her name to an Irish company of gods headed by Dagda.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Danu
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 9. Answer the following about 19th-century wars of German unification, FTP each:
\par 1. This July 3, 1866, battle in Bohemia was the only major battle of the Seven Weeks\rquote  War, which allowed Prussia to organize the North German Confederation.
\par \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f5\fs18\ul K\'9aniggr\'8atz}{\f5\fs18  (or Battle of }{\f5\fs18\ul Sadowa}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. Bismarck\rquote s doctoring of a telegram reporting a meeting between William I of Prussia and the French ambassador in this city sparked the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ems}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Prussia\rquote s military success against Austria and France was due in larg
e part to this man, who was among the first military men to recognize the usefulness of railways in deployment and who served as Chief of the Prussian General Staff starting in 1858.
\par \tab Answer: Helmuth Karl Bernhard, Count von }{\f5\fs18\ul Moltke}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 10. Answer the following about one of the pioneers of computing FTP each. 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
1. Professor Emeritus at Stanford, he is best known for writing the epic \'93The Art of Computer Programming\'94.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Donald Ervin }{\f5\fs18\ul Knuth}{
\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 2. Probably Knuth\rquote 
s second most important contribution to computing, this UNIX-based software allows for easy mathematical typesetting and is essential to scientific journals.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul TeX}{\f5\fs18  (pronounced 
\'93tech\'94) 
\par 3. Knuth has a standing offer of this amount of money for being the first person to find a given error in one of his books. Expressed in pennies, it is equal to a hexadecimal dollar.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul $2.56}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par 11. Name the following medieval Italian painters, FTP each.
\par 1. The founder of the Sienese school of painting, best remembered for the altarpiece }{\i\f5\fs18 Maesta}{\f5\fs18  of the Siena Cathedral, who is also now generally agreed to be the painter of the }{\i\f5\fs18 Madonna Rucellai}{\f5\fs18 
 in Florence even though Vasari attributed it to an older painter.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Duccio}{\f5\fs18  di Buoninsegna
\par 2. The most important Italian painter of the 14th century, who has been revered since then as the father of European painting. Only a few works, such as }{\i\f5\fs18 The Madonna in Glory}{\f5\fs18 
, can be attributed to him with certainty, but he also appears to have painted a cycle of frescoes in Assisi.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Giotto}{\f5\fs18  di Bondone
\par 3. The 13th century artist who taught Giotto, painted }{\i\f5\fs18 Madonna Enthroned with St. Francis}{\f5\fs18 , and is considered the last great Italian artist in the Byzantine style.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Cimabue}{\f5\fs18  (chih-ma-BOO-ay) (or }{\f5\fs18\ul Bencivieni}{\f5\fs18  di Pepo)
\par }{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 12. Identify the following kinds of phonetic sounds, FTP each.
\par 1. A consonant sound, such as }{\i\f5\fs18 f}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 v}{\f5\fs18  in English, produced by bringing the mouth into position to block the passage of the airstream without making complete closure.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul fricative}{\f5\fs18  (or }{\f5\fs18\ul spirant}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. A fricative in which the tip of the tongue is brought near the roof of the mouth and air is pushed past the tongue to make a hissing sound. Examples in English are the }{\i\f5\fs18 s}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 z}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 sh}{\f5\fs18 
, and }{\i\f5\fs18 zh}{\f5\fs18  sounds.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul sibilant}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. A consonant sound characterized by the momentary blocking of some part of the oral cavity. English examples are }{\i\f5\fs18 b}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 d}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 g}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul stop}{\f5\fs18  (or }{\f5\fs18\ul plosive}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 13. Answer the following about the Opium Wars, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) Give any year during which the first Opium War was fought.
\par \tab Answer: (accept any year from }{\f5\fs18\ul 1839}{\f5\fs18  to }{\f5\fs18\ul 1842}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. (5 points) Name the treaty signed in August, 1842 which ended the first Opium War.
\par \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f5\fs18\ul Nanking}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (5 points) Give any year during which the second Opium War was fought.
\par \tab Answer: (accept any year from }{\f5\fs18\ul 1856}{\f5\fs18  to }{\f5\fs18\ul 1860}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 4. (15 points) The British saw fit to start the second Opium War after some Chinese officials boarded a certain British ship and lowered its flag. Name the ship, which also gives its name to an alternative name for the second Opium War.
\par \tab Answer: HMS }{\f5\fs18\ul Arrow
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 14. Answer the following about }{\i\f5\fs18 Beowulf}{\f5\fs18 , for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) Name the monster which has been ravaging the mead hall, Heorot, for 12 years until Beowulf kills him.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Grendel}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (5 points) Name the king of Denmark to whom Heorot belongs.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hrothgar}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) Name the kingdom of southern Sweden from which Beowulf comes.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Geats}{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. (10 points) Name the king of Geats succeded by Beowulf.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hygelac
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 15. Identify the following minerals, FTP each.
\par 1. The most common mineral in the Earth\rquote s crust, its types include plagioclase and albite.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Feldspar}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. The most common mineral found in iron ores, it is usually found as a red pigment, with chemical formula Fe}{\f5\fs18\dn6 2}{\f5\fs18 O}{\f5\fs18\dn6 3}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hematite}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The most abundant ferromagnesian silicate mineral, its types include augite, diopside, and jadeite.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Pyroxene}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 16. Identify the following Old Testament figures, FTP each.
\par 1. The prophet who suceeded Elijah in the struggle to maintain the worship of Yahweh under the kings Joram and Jehu, opposing the cult of Baal.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Elisha}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. The prophet who, in the book named for him, predicted the destruction of Judah and Jerusalem because of the people\rquote s apostasy, and who advocated submission to Babylon.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Jeremiah}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The 11th minor prophet, whose visions included the four horsemen of the apocalypse, the rebuilding of Jerusalem\rquote s temple, and the worldwide recognition of Yahweh.\tab 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Zechariah
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 17. Answer the following about the founders of Rome, FTP each.
\par 1. Romulus and Remus were sons of what daughter of Numitor?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Rhea Silvia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Numitor was ousted by this brother, who was eventually overthrown by Romulus and Remus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Amulius}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Romulus was taken into the heavens by Mars, and was worshiped as a god among the Romans under this name.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Quirinus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. Few things are as interesting in science as crackpot science, as these cranks will demonstrate. 
\par 1. (5 points each) In 1989, this pair of University of Utah scientists put two electrodes near a slug of heavy water and declared that they had discovered cold fusion. 
\par \tab Answers: Stanley }{\f5\fs18\ul Pons}{\f5\fs18  and Martin }{\f5\fs18\ul Fleischman}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) He believed that he could "train" spring wheat to be winter wheat and thus increase annual harvests. His unte
sted theory led to disastrous harvests in the Soviet Union, and even today Russian biology lags behind that of the west because of him.
\par \tab Answer: Trofim }{\f5\fs18\ul Lysenko}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) He believed that the planet Venus was, until rather recently, a comet. He based t
his on myths from the ancient Greeks, believing that the goddess Athena (representing the planet Venus) sprang from the head of Zeus (or the planet Jupiter). Name this author of }{\i\f5\fs18 Worlds in Collision}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Immanuel }{\f5\fs18\ul Velikovsky}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. Identify the following 20th-century novels inspired by the story of Cain and Abel, FTP each.
\par 1. The title character of this Hermann Hesse novel influences his younger friend Emil Sinclair by teaching him about a demon-god named Abraxas and about the \'93mark of Cain,\'94 which he purports to recognize in Emil.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Demian}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. In this novel, set in California\rquote s Salinas Valley and based on the story of Cain and Abel, Cal Trask drives his brother Aron to death by telling him that their mother is a prostitute.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul East of Eden}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This 1917 modern re-creation of the Cain and Abel story, arguably the most famous novel by Miguel de Unamuno, centers on the painfully conflicting impulses of the character representing Cain.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Abel S\'87nchez}{\i\f5\fs18 : History of a Passion }{\f5\fs18 (}{\i\f5\fs18\ul Abel S\'87nchez}{\i\f5\fs18 : Historia de una Pasi\emdash n}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 20. Given a description, name the development in European unification FTP each.
\par 1. Named for a French foreign minister, this plan created the European Coal and Steel Collective.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Schumann}{\f5\fs18  Plan
\par 2. This 1957 treaty whose stated goal was \'93an ever closer union\'94 took initial steps to create a European Parliament and Court system.
\par \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f5\fs18\ul Rome}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The goal of this 1991 treaty was to unite Europe under a single currency by 1999.
\par \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f5\fs18\ul Maastricht}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Answer the following about the Chou (cho) Dynasty, for the stated number of points:\line 1. FFP, name either the dynasty which preceded it or that which it preceded.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Shang}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Ch\rquote in}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. FFP, name either of the capitals out of which it ruled.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hao}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Lo-yang}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. FTPE, name the two main periods of the Eastern Chou, the first of which, from 722-481 BC, saw China overrun by small squabbling states, and the second of which, from 481-221, saw these states conglomerate into larger units which fou
ght each other for supremacy.
\par \tab Answers: }{\f5\fs18\ul Spring and Autumn}{\f5\fs18  period (}{\f5\fs18\ul Ch\rquote un Ch\rquote iu}{\f5\fs18 ) and }{\f5\fs18\ul Warring States}{\f5\fs18  period (}{\f5\fs18\ul Chan Kuo}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 30-20-10, Name the material 
\par 1. A type of bitumen, it was used as a water stop in the walls of a a reservoir at Mohenjo-Daro in Pakistan in the third-millenium BC. The Pitch Lake on the island of Trinidad was the first large commercial source. 
\par 2. The natural variety is known as brea; however it is generally manufactured today. It consists of compounds of hydrogen and carbon with minor proportions of nitrogen, sulfur, and oxygen. It softens when heated and is elastic under certain conditions. 

\par 3. Its principal application is in road surfacing where its binding and adhesive properties are useful. It is generally obtained today from the distillation of petroleum. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul asphalt}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }}