{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\brdrb\brdrs \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Questions by Bowling Green and Georgia}
{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
Tossups by Bowling Green and Georgia\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. His column of literary criticism, \ldblquote The Phoenix Nest\rdblquote  was a regular feature in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Saturday Review of Literature}{\f21\fs18 . His collections of poetry include }{\i\f21\fs18 Starry Harness}{\f21\fs18 
 and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Spirit of the Scene}{\f21\fs18 . He wrote a novel in verse, }{\i\f21\fs18 Rip Tide}{\f21\fs18 , and his verse autobiography, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Dust which is God}{\f21\fs18 , won him a Pulitzer Prize. 
FTP, name this American poet, best known among quiz bowlers for editing the }{\i\f21\fs18 Readers\rquote  Encyclopedia}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul W}{\f21\fs18 illiam Rose }{\f21\fs18\ul Ben\'8et}{\f21\fs18  (buh-NAY)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. He was born in the village of Chillicothe, three miles north of Xenia, Ohio. His father died at the Battle of Point Pleasant. His older brother Chiskia taught him many of his culture\rquote 
s customs, and he learned patience, honesty, and honor from his sister Tecumpese. FTP, name this man, whose name means The Panther Passing arrows, most noted for his participation in the battles of Fallen Timbers, Tippecanoe and the River Thames.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tecumseh}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Though a long version called a buisine (bwee-zeen) was replaced by a shorter version in about 1300, the modern version only came into use about 1815. 
Made with a cylindrical bore, the piccolo version was created in D for compositions with high registers such as those of Handel and Bach. The more typical B flat version has a range of about three octaves from the F sharp below the treble staff. 
FTP, name this close relative of the coronet, the instrument of Miles Davis and Wynton Marsalis.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul trumpet\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4. These clouds sometimes display a form referred to as mamma, where bulbous protrusions hang from the base of the cloud. 
Larger ones sometimes have a feature technically referred to as cirrus spissatus, or more commonly referred to as an anvil. It is classified as a low cloud due to the height of its base, but occasionally its top can reach the tropopause. 
FTP, name this type of cloud associated with severe thunderstorms.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cumulonimbus}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept or prompt on "nimbus")}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5. This river is the seventh-longest in the world, but flows through only one city of any note, Yakutsk, on its 2,734-mile course. 
Perhaps that is because of its remote location, starting near Lake Baikal and flowing generally north through eastern Siberia before emptying into the Arctic Ocean near the town of Tiksi. FTP, identify
 this Russian river, which flows east of the Ob and Yenisey rivers.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Lena}{\f21\fs18  River\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
6. His important poems on early Celtic and Norse themes included "The Bard," "The Fatal Sisters," and "The Descent of Odin." The author of "The Progress of Poesy," his most famous poem helped establish the "graveyard school" of reflective poetry, although 
he also wrote relatively light verse, like the "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Gold Fishes." FTP, name this poet best known for his "Elegy written in a Country Churchyard."\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f21\fs18\ul Gray\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
7. Similar to the standard practice, the procedure also uses the addition of a column with large glass cylinders or orbs to provide a larger surface area for condensation. This allows only the most volatile material to proceed to the receiver in vapor form
; the less volatile material is returned as liquid. The purification the volatile material undergoes is referred to as rectification. This process involves repeated condensation and vaporization processes in an insulated vertical column. 
FTP, give the name of this technique developed by Fritz Haber and used to separate liquids with similar boiling points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fractional Distillation}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Differential Distillation\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. During an epidemic in China, the traveling magician Chang Chueh reportedly healed many by giving them water over which he had said an incantation. 
The fame he earned by his remedy earned him hundreds of followers, and he decided to exploit his success by promising them immortality through potions, and by starting a revolt against the corrupt eunuchs who controlled the government. 
This was the beginning, FTP, of which twenty-year rebellion against the Han dynasty, named for the distinctive, colorful headgear worn by the insurgents?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Yellow Turban}{\f21\fs18  Rebellion\par 
}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 9. While travelling in France and Italy, he was impressed by the cultivation techniques used in the vineyards there, and he subsequently adapted the technique of pulverizing the earth between rows of crops at his farm in Berkshire. 
This man created a horse drawn hoe and in 1731 wrote the book }{\i\f21\fs18 The New Horse Houghing Husbandry: Or an Essay on the Principles of Tillage and Vegetation}{\f21\fs18 . However, he is perhaps most noted for his 1701 invention of the seed drill. 
FTP, name this noted English agriculturist, later the namesake of a rock band featuring Ian Anderson.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jethro }{\f21\fs18\ul Tull}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 10. His works include a study of Lucretius, Dante, and Goethe as three philosophical poets and a group of imaginary conversations between figures like Alcibiades, Dionysius, and Democritus, entitled }{\i\f21\fs18 Dialogues in Limbo}{
\f21\fs18 . He believed that man is the unintended product of a dynamic flux, and his books include }{\i\f21\fs18 The Life of Reason}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Realms of Being}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, name this author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Sense of Beauty}{
\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Scepticism and Animal Faith}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Last Puritan}{\f21\fs18 , a Spanish-American philosopher who taught at Harvard.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Santayana\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 11. It is known for its northwest spire, called the cl\'99ture neuf, which was added in 1523 to balance an earlier tower. This cathedral, executed in the Early Gothic Style, was nearly destroyed by fire in 1194. 
Rebuilding was nearly finished by 1220 and continuing improvements included flying buttresses making it the first building of High Gothic Style. 
FTP, name this French cathedral, considered unique for the sculpture of its Royal Portals and the asymmetry of its west facade, which includes two towers of different Gothic styles.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chartres}{\f21\fs18  ("shartr") Cathedral\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. Although the idea goes back to Ptolemy, the first true example of this class of objects wasn\rquote t observed until 1650, when Giambattista Riccioli focused his telescope on Mizar in the handle of the Big Dipper. 
More and more were discovered, including Virgins, Cygni and Castor, eventually leading Herschel to set down a strict definition and to name them in his 1802 paper, \ldblquote On the Construction of the Universe\rdblquote . 
FTP, name these astronomical objects, now separated into visual, spectroscopic, and eclipsing types. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul binary}{\f21\fs18  stars\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 13. Originally titled }{\i\f21\fs18 A Moment\rquote s Ornament}{\f21\fs18 , its protagonist commits suicide by overdosing on pills. 
Earlier, she had run up gambling debts and found herself unable to marry Lawrence Selden, a nice man who lacked wealth, and Simon Rosedale, a rich Jew. FTP, name this work, which describes the life of Lily Bart, a 1905 novel of Edith Wharton.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul House of Mirth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. The only other person who ever saw him was a female exchange student from Italy named Carmella, and she confronted this bully on behalf of her continually harassed friend.
 This nasty character was never seen by any other students or authority figures, and was commonly believed to be imaginary, despite his frequent victim\rquote 
s insistence otherwise. Arnold was never able to beat him up, even with his incredibly powerful foot. FTP, name this nemesis of Gary Coleman\rquote s character Arnold Jackson, who remained unseen by the audience for the entire run of }{\i\f21\fs18 Diff
\rquote rent Strokes}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Gooch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 15. After the death of his son Eustace, he signed the treaty of Winchester. With the support
 of nobles who disliked Geoffrey of Anjou, he seized the throne, but was troubled by Robert, earl of Gloucester, before his victory at Faringdon in 1145 secured his reign. 
FTP, identify this king of England, who took the crown from Matilda, the daughter of Henry I, but allowed it to pass to her son Henry II after his death, becoming the only member of the house of Blois.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Stephen}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 16. Working at a children\rquote s hospital in Kentucky for several years, she became inspired by the writings of American zoologist George B. Schaller. 
Leaving Kentucky for the Virunga Mountains, she established the Karisoke Research Center in 1967. While living in Rwanda, she was murdered in 1985, a still unsolved crime which is thought to be the work of angry poachers. 
FTP, name this woman who made a long-term study of the behavior of mountain gorillas.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Dian }{\f21\fs18\ul Fossey\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 17. Following the work done five years earlier by Compton on X-ray scattering, this physicist began studying similar scattering properties in light of optical wavelengths in 1928. 
His demonstration that optical light had particulate aspects just like X-rays strengthened the case for quantum mechanics. 
More importantly, he also showed that the spectrum of the scattered light was effected by the nature of the molecules doing the scattering, providing another probe of the fine details of molecular structure. 
FTP, name this first Asian Nobel Laureate, winner of the prize in 1930.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Chandrasekhara Venkata }{\f21\fs18\ul Raman}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. It begins with letters to the editor from himself and from John Puff, following a dedication to Miss Fanny written by the psedonymous Conny Keyber. The text that follows is sent from Parson Oliver to Parson Tickletext, and describes 
the title character's affair with Parson Arthur Williams before she tricks Squire Booby into marrying her. FTP, identify this parodic work of 1741, which mocks a popular epistolary novel by Samuel Richardson, written by Henry Fielding.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Shamela}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 An }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Apology for the Life of Mrs. Shamela Andrews\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 19. His first battle was against the Cherokee in 1759, and when the Revolutionary War broke out he was a member of his home state's Provincial Congress and commissioned as captain. 
After his most noteworthy battle manuever at Parker's Ferry in August, 1781, he was appointed brigadier general and after the war served in the South Carolina senate from 1782 to 1790. 
FTP name this Revolutionary War hero, who earned his nickname from the terrain he hid in before rescuing Americans surrounded by the British, that nickname being the "Swamp Fox."\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Francis }{\f21\fs18\ul Marion}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on the }{\f21\fs18\ul Swamp Fox}{\f21\fs18  before it is mentioned)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 20. Located from 70 to 200 kilometers beneath the earth's surface and as much as 600 kilometers thick in some places, seismic velocities are distinctly lower in this layer than in adjacent parts of the Earth's layers. 
Its delicately balanced pressure and temperature results in most of its material being near its melting point, allowing for flow and movement responsible for volcanic activity. FTP, name this upper layer of the mantle, also called the "low velocity zone".
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul asthenosphere}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on }{\f21\fs18\ul mantle}{\f21\fs18 ; accept }{\f21\fs18\ul low velocity zone}{\f21\fs18  until mentioned)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 1. Its author responded to its critics in two works, one of which was titled }{\i\f21\fs18 L\rquote Impromptu de Versailles}{\f21\fs18 . Horace is able to persuade Agnes to run away with him because of her lack of 
sophistication. Agnes\rquote s father, Enrique, arranges with Horace\rquote s father for their children to be married. That thwarts Arnolphe\rquote s plan for Agnes, his beloved, to be raised in innocence so that she may prove to be a faithful wife. 
These events occur in, FTP, this 1662 verse comedy by Moli\'8fre (mole-YAIR), which, despite its title, has nothing to do with formal education.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 L\rquote }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ecole des Femmes}{\i\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18 or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul School for Wives}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 2. Parallel rings of this are known in Borneo, South Africa, the tropical regions of the Americas. Examples of it can be found among the members of many distinct nymphalid subfamilies in South America. 
This works due to a principle known as signal standardization. As it is often difficult to judge the palatability of a species, it is hard to distinguish it from the better-known Batesian version. 
FTP, name this type of mimicry where equally unpalatable unrelated species share coloration patterns.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mullerian}{\f21\fs18  mimicry\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. One of its names translates as "plain of joy", while another means "land of youth". Sources list either King Tethra of the Formorians, a race of giants, or the sea god Manannan mac Lir as its ruler. 
Sources also can't agree on the location of this paradise for the deceased, placing it at the bottom of the ocean or as an idyllic island. FTP, name this place from Celtic mythology, capitalized upon by Saban Entertainment with its "Mystic Knights."\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tir na n-Og}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
Boni by Bowling Green and Georgia\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Identify the bones of the human body from a description for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 Points) This bone holds the scapula and the humerus away from the body and with those two makes up the three major bones of the shoulder.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Clavicle\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (5 Points) In the hand these bones connect the phalanges to the wrist.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Metacarpal}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10 Points) This is the name given to the first cervical vertebra. Its name is derived from the fact it supports the head.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Atlas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4. (10 Points) This is the name given to the second cervical vertebra. Its name is derived from the fact it contains the structure on which the first vertebra rotates.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Axis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Answer these related questions from philosophy for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) They are tiny mirrors of the entire universe, and each unit has the potential to express the fullness of the universe in their relationship to each other.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul monad}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) Name the philosopher whose }{\i\f21\fs18 Monadology}{\f21\fs18  developed the concept of monads.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Gottfried Willhem }{\f21\fs18\ul Leibniz}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) It is said Leibniz borrowed the term "monad" from this student of Henry More and author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Principles of the Most Ancient and Modern Philosophy}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Anne Finch }{\f21\fs18\ul Conway}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Identify these literary terms that involve repetition for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) The recurrence of initial consonant sounds.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul alliteration}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Repetition of the same word or words at the beginning of successive phrases, clauses, or sentences.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul anaphora}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept "epistrophe" or "antistrophe", which are repetition at the end of phrases, clauses, or sentences)\par 
3. (15 points) A rhetorical trope formed by repeating the last word of one phrase, clause, or sentence at or very near the beginning of the next.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul anadiplosis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4. In 52 BC, it was a rotten time to be a Roman, as unrest gripped the republic. FTP each, answer these questions about that eventful year.\par 
1. His death rocked the city, causing a mob to even burn down the Curia house, after receiving news of his murder on the Appian Way, near Bovillae.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Publius }{\f21\fs18\ul Clodius}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This man was the defendant in the trial which investigated Publius Clodius' murder, and he was represnted by the greatest orator of the day, Cicero. However
, that helped litle as the Clodian mob frequently disrupted the proceedings, leading to a guilty verdict.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Milo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. While such chaos dominated the city, even the usually universally successful campaigns of Julius Caesar in Gual began to encounter trouble. 
This general of the Gauls proved to be a formidable opponent that year, temporarily uniting the people in revolt before falling to Caesar at the siege of Alesia.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vercingetorix}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. FTP each, identify these people from the Old Testament.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Hannah and Elkanah, this man's parents, gave him to God's service as a deal for his successful birth.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Samuel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Even in death, Samuel's status was respected, for this king, when presented with a war with the Philistines, consulted a witch to raise the spirit of Samuel for consultation.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Saul}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Samuel's first-born son, he shares his name, which means "Jehovah is God," with the author of the second of the books of the minor prophets.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Joel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. Identify these geological features of Lake Huron FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This Canadian island is the largest island in a lake in the world.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Manitoulin}{\f21\fs18  Island}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This is the name given to the channel between Manitoulin Island and the Ontario mainland.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul North}{\f21\fs18  Channel\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Part of this peninsula is a Canadian national park. It separates most of Georgian Bay from the rest of the lake.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bruce}{\f21\fs18  Peninsula}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
7. Identify the following from observational astronomy, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This is the distance at which an object would have the same apparent magnitude and absolute magntidue.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 10 parsec}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Given measurements of the apparent magnitude of the same object using different filters, this quantity is the difference between the two magnitudes. In the first Hertzsprung-Russell diagrams it was plotted against apparent magnitude.
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul color}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Using the colors from several observations of an object of known type, this method may be used to give a rough estimate of the object\rquote s redshift.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul photometric}{\f21\fs18  redshifts\par 
 \par 
8. FTP each, identify these abstract expressionists.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This Dutch-born painter is best known for the 1950\rquote s series }{\i\f21\fs18 Women}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: William }{\f21\fs18\ul de Kooning}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This Russian immigrant's paintings often consist entirely of two or three rectangles of different colors.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Mark }{\f21\fs18\ul Rothko}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. He also painted canvases featuring amorphous shapes in strong colors, such as the series }{\i\f21\fs18 Elegy for the Spanish Republic}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Robert }{\f21\fs18\ul Motherwell\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 9. Name these novels by E. M. Forster FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This novel, set in Italy, is the story of Lucy Honeychurch, the Emersons, and Cecil Vyse.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Room With a View}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The title house influences the lives of the Wilcoxes, the Schlegel sisters, and Leonard Best.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Howards End}{\i\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. In this novel, not published until 1971, the title character falls in love with Alec Scudder, a gamekeeper for his friend Clive.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Maurice}{\f21\fs18  ("morris")}{\i\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
10. Given a description of an ancient city identify it FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. It is located south of Nineveh on the west bank of the Tigris River. The Iraqi village of Ash Sharqat is located there today. It is believed that this city was built by Kikia, and it was the ancient capital of Assyria.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashur}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Assur}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashshur}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. It was originally called Crenides. It was captured by Phillip II of Macedonia in 335 B.C.; however, it is best known for a battle fought there in 42 B.C. and for being the site of the first Christian church.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Philippi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. It was founded in 1152 BC by Ascanius and was believed by be destroyed by the Romans in 665 BC. It was long the head of the Latin League and was located on the western shore of Lake Albano. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Alba Longa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 11. Answer the following about flame tests for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (15 points) The use of the flame test was developed by this German chemist in 1758.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Andreas Sigismund }{\f21\fs18\ul Marggraf}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) Although he didn\rquote t realize it, Marggraf\rquote s experiments would show that only the presence of this type of element could be identified with a flame test.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul metal}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (5 points each) Marggraf\rquote s original experiments showed that compounds containing sodium burned with a different color than those containing potassium. Give the colors that each of those elements produces in a flame test.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul yellow}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul violet}{\f21\fs18  (accept equivalents)\par 
\par 
12. Name this American, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. She worked with her husband on the Boston abolitionist newspaper }{\i\f21\fs18 Commonwealth}{\f21\fs18 , and was the first woman elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. She wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 Modern Society, Sex, and Education}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Reminiscences}{\f21\fs18 , in addition to being involved in the women\rquote s suffrage movement.\par 
3. She is best known for one of her poems, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Battle Hymn of the Republic.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Julia Ward }{\f21\fs18\ul Howe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. Name these Napoleonic Battles, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This battle fought from October 16 to 19 in 1813, broke Napoleon's hold on central Europe and caused him to retreat to Paris.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Leipzig}{\f21\fs18  (accept the Battle of the }{\f21\fs18\ul Nations}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2. This battle resulted in Napoleon's defeat of the Mamalukes and taking of Egypt in 1798.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the battle of the }{\f21\fs18\ul Pyramids}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Napoleon's success at this battle of June 14, 1807, brought Russia's Alexander I to the table and resulted in the Tready of Tilsik.\par 
\tab Answer: the battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Friedland}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. Identify the economics terms from definitions FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. The price of a good minus the value of intermediate inputs used to make it; it is targeted in Canada and most of Europe by a special tax.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul value added}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul value added tax}{\f21\fs18 ; prompt on VAT)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This describes a country with total economic self-sufficiency, and hence engaging in no foreign trade.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul autarky}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This refers to behavior in which firms and individuals try to alter income distribution in their favor; it does not add to national output, but uses up resources that could have done so.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul rent seeking}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. Name these \ldblquote golden" things FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This novel by William Kirby was the first Canadian novel to reach widespread popularity.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The}{\f21\fs18  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Golden Dog}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This compilation of the lives of the Saints by Jacobus de Voraigne was among the most popular works published by William Caxton.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The}{\f21\fs18  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Golden Legend}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This novel by Nelson Algren tells the story of Frankie Machine, who is driven to suicide by his heroin addiction. Frank Sinatra played Frankie in the widely acclaimed cinematic version.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The}{\f21\fs18  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Man With The Golden Arm}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 16. Given the president who appointed them and the year they were appointed, name the Attorney Generals FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. James Buchanan, 1860\par 
\tab Answer: Edwin M. }{\f21\fs18\ul Stanton}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Ulysses S. Grant, 1876\par 
\tab Answer: Alphonso }{\f21\fs18\ul Taft}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Calvin Coolidge, 1924\par 
\tab Answer: Harlan F. }{\f21\fs18\ul Stone\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 17. Charged with embezzling funds from a bank, he fled to Central America, but eventually returned to spend three years in a federal penitentiary. Answer some questions about this dude FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Who is this American author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Cabbages and Kings}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Trimmed Lamp}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul O. Henry}{\f21\fs18  or William Sydney }{\f21\fs18\ul Porter}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The title of this 1905 short story collection by O. Henry was selected as a response to Ward McAllister\rquote s comment that \ldblquote there are only about four hundred people in New York society.\rdblquote \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Four Million}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Contained in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Four Million}{\f21\fs18  is this story about the Dillingham Youngs and their Christmas presents for each other.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Gift of the Magi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. During his presidency, Bush decided to relieve someone who had been on "the company" payroll since the 1960's, so he sent 26,000 of his closest friends to do it for him. Answer these questions about that ev
ent for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) Who surrendered to Bush's army on January 3, 1990?\par 
\tab Answer: Manuel Antonio }{\f21\fs18\ul Noriega}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) In what U.S. city did Noriega stand trial?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Miami}{\f21\fs18 , Florida\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) What man, who had actually been elected President of Panama in May 1988, succeeded Noriega?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Guillermo }{\f21\fs18\ul Endara\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \sl240 {\f21\fs18 19. Given an organism, name its phylum, FTP each.\par 
1. Sponges\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Porifera}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Hookworms\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Nematoda}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Planarians\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Platyhelminthes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 20. Identify these female psychologists who were not Anna Freud FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Her earlier work with educating mentally retarded children led her to postulate that a child is more responsive to certain learning experiences at particular times or "sensitive" periods.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Maria }{\f21\fs18\ul Montessori}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. She and her husband coauthored the Robbers Cave experiment, dealing with factors conducive to conflict and cooperation between groups.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Carolyn }{\f21\fs18\ul Sherif}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. She was Sybil's therapist, and her work encouraged the American Psychiatric Association to investigate multiple personality disorder, or dissociative identity disorder.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Cornelia }{\f21\fs18\ul Wilbur}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 Name these people associated with the }{\i\f21\fs18 Encyclop\'8edie}{\f21\fs18  for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 Points) He led the project, and also wrote books like }{\i\f21\fs18 Rameau's Nephew}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Jacques the Fatalist}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Denis }{\f21\fs18\ul Diderot}{\f21\fs18  (dee-duh-ROW)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 Points) This co-editor of the }{\i\f21\fs18 Encyclop\'8edie}{\f21\fs18  was otherwise primarily known as a mathematician.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jean Le Rond }{\f21\fs18\ul d\rquote Alembert}{\f21\fs18  (da-lem-BEAR)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 Points) He directed the mass production of articles by bad writers, and helped Diderot distribute the }{\i\f21\fs18 Encyclop\'8edie.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Louis de }{\f21\fs18\ul Jaucourt}{\f21\fs18  (zhoh-COOR)}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 Given a country, tell me its leader in 1970 FTP each.\par 
1. Cameroon\par 
\tab Answer: Ahmadou }{\f21\fs18\ul Ahidjo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Niger\par 
\tab Answer: Hamani }{\f21\fs18\ul Diori}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Lesotho\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Moshoeshoe II}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 I will give you a set of numbers and one or two binary operations. FTP each, say if the set and the operation(s) form a group, a ring, an integral domain, a field, or none of the above. 
You must be as specific as possible, as some of your options are subsets of other options, and you will not be prompted.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. The set of integers, addition\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Group}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. The set of integers modulo 7, addition and multiplication.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Field}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. The set of integers modulo 12, addition and multiplication.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ring}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}