{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff12\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York;}{\f194\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f195\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f197\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f198\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f199\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f200\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f201\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Carleton B}{\author Ryan Scranton}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo2\dy14\hr3\min10}{\revtim\yr2001\mo2\dy14\hr3\min12}{\version3}{\edmins2}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords4005}{\nofchars22833}
{\nofcharsws28040}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f5\fs18 Tossups by Carleton B 
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. His most famous work bore the Latin motto "Natura non facit saltum," or nature makes no sudden leaps. Though it never appeared, the second volume of that monumental work was to have covered foreign trade, money, and taxation. FTP, name the Cambridge pr
ofessor who introduced the concepts of elasticity of demand and equilibrium in the short and long runs with the 1890 publication of }{\i\f5\fs18 Principles of Economics}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Alfred }{\f5\fs18\ul Marshall}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. During much of his life, he slept on straw and ate little but beef, pri
ding himself on a narrow, passionless rationality, which he sought to impose on the various Hapsburg domains. Although he abolished serfdom and issued a Toleration Patent to urge freedom of worship among Lutherans, Calvinists, and the Greek Orthodox, his 
taxes on the nobility were so strongly opposed that after his death his brother Leopold II immediately repealed them. FTP, name this son of Maria Theresa, who ruled from 1780 to 1790 and is considered the most enlightened monarch of Austria.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Joseph II}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. Its working title was }{\i\f5\fs18 The Choice of Life}{\f5\fs18 , a philosophical fable cast in the form of an Oriental tale which owed its popularity to the vogue of the }{\i\f5\fs18 Arabian Nights}{\f5\fs18 
. The title character, along with his sister Nekayah and mentor Imlac, escape to Cairo,
 but return to Happy Valley because they fail to find the happiness they had expected. FTP, name the book that, to pay for his mother's funeral, was written during the evenings of one week in January 1759 by Samuel Johnson.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 History of }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Rasselas}{\i\f5\fs18 , Prince of Abyssinia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 4. He was practically unknown until the age of forty, when, in 1722, he published his }{\i\f5\fs18 Treatise on Harmony}{\f5\fs18 . This made him known as a philosopher, but his patron La Popelini\u143\'8f
re (poh-plan-ee-AIR) helped him succeed as a popular opera composer, with the production in the 1730s of such works as }{\i\f5\fs18 Hippolyte et Aricie}{\f5\fs18  (ee-poh-LEET ay ah-ree-SEE), }{\i\f5\fs18 Dardanus}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 
Les Indes gallantes}{\f5\fs18  (lay zand gah-LANT), and his masterpiece }{\i\f5\fs18 Castor et Pollux}{\f5\fs18 . FTP, name 18th-century France\rquote s foremost musician, whose nephew appears in a 1762 dialogue by Denis Diderot (dee-duh-ROH).
\par \tab Answer: Jean-Philippe }{\f5\fs18\ul Rameau}{\f5\fs18  (ruh-MOH)
\par 
\par 5. Around the year 700, the virginity of the princess Frideswide was preserved in Christ Church Meadow because her ravisher was struck blind, a miracle whic
h inspired her to found a priory near Folly Bridge. Although it acquired its modern use with the migration of students from Paris in the 12th century, undergraduates still mark its founding on May Day with a chilly breakfast on the river while a choir sin
gs from Magdalen Tower. FTP, name this English university, said to have been erected on a river forded by oxen.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Oxford}{\f5\fs18  University
\par 
\par 6. Using it, a chemist can calculate via the phase rule the possibility of a reaction occurring spontaneously. Synthesizing the earlier work of Guldberg and Waage in their law of mass action and Gibb\rquote 
s description of chemical thermodynamics, its inventor served as a consultant on shell casings during World War I. FTP, name the principle stating that when a strain is plac
ed on a system in equilibrium, readjustment occurs in the direction that most effectively relieves the strain, named for the Frenchman who discovered it in 1888.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Le Ch\'89telier}{\f5\fs18 \rquote s principle
\par 
\par 7. When Samos fell to the Persians, the Athenian tyrant Hip
parchus made sure to rescue this poet. His popularity was reflected in the statue of him on the Acropolis, and in the many red-figure vases which show him playing the lyre as young men dance around him with abandon. When Francis Scott Key wrote his famous
 lines, he matched them to the tune of a British drinking song that invoked the name of this Greek poet. FTP, name the 6th-century B.C. poet of many drinking songs and frivolous love songs.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Anacreon}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. His most famous book is divided into three pa
rts, dealing with "Theory," "Institutions," and "Ends," and includes chapters on "Goodness as Rationality," "Duty and Obligation," and "Justice as Fairness." When he considered the arrangements people would consent to if society were freely entered into, 
he imagined that people situated in an \'93original position\'94 behind a \'93veil of ignorance\'94
 would choose to regulate their relations according to the principles of justice. FTP, name the Harvard philosopher who is credited with reviving liberalism with his 1971 work }{\i\f5\fs18 A Theory of Justice}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Rawls}{\f5\fs18  (prompt on }{\i\f5\fs18 A }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Theory of Justice}{\f5\fs18  if someone stupidly buzzes in and gives it as an answer)
\par 
\par 9. It said that Amon had descended upon her mother Ahmasi in a flood of perfume and light, and on departing had announced that Ahmasi would give birth to a daughter in whom all the valor and strength of the god would be made manifest on earth. Indeed, Syr
i
a took advantage of her death to revolt, as it did not seem likely that the 22-year-old Thutmose III would be able to maintain the empire as well as his predecessor. FTP, name the Egyptian pharaoh whose tomb was the first to be built in the Valley of the 
Kings.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hatshepsut}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 10. Its smaller settlements include the fishing port Marciana Marina, the resort town Marina di Campo, and the more centrally-located Poggio. Often carrying a batch of criminals to the penal colony at Porto Azzurro, the boat from
 Piombino needs only a half hour to cover the six miles lying between the capital at Portoferraio and the Italian mainland. FTP, name the Tyrrhenian island on which, between May 1814 and March 1815, Napoleon Bonaparte lived in exile.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Elba
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 11. The
 novel begins in 1801, after the narrator arrives at Thrushcross Grange. The housekeeper Ellen Dean tells the story, and the novel ends with Lockwood's visit to three headstones after he learns of the marriage of the heirs of Linton and Earnshaw. FTP, ide
ntify this 1847 novel, set in a remote part of Yorkshire, which was originally published under the pseudonym of Ellis Bell and features the love of Catherine and Heathcliff.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Wuthering Heights}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12. The first tables of these for integers were calcula
ted by Burgi, at the time employed as the court watch-maker for Rudolph II. A much more powerful continuous form was calculated later in the late sixteenth century and given to Tycho Brahe and it was the use of these functions by Kepler that demonstrated 
their use to the scientific community in general. FTP, name this concept, developed separately by Stifil and Napier, which allows for the transformation of multiplication into addition or subtraction.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul logarithm}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 13. He held a high-church view of An
glicanism, favoring powerful bishops, elaborate liturgy, and personal religious observance. In 1637, having already radicalized the Puritans by denying them the right to publish and preach, he tried to impose on Scotland the English episcopal system and a
 prayerbook almost identical to the Anglican Book of Common Prayer. FTP, name this prelate executed by the Long Parliament, Charles I\rquote s religious advisor, and, after 1633, archbishop of Canterbury.
\par \tab Answer: William }{\f5\fs18\ul Laud}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 14. He failed in his attempt to crea
te a human being, and left to Nintu the deed of molding from clay the first satisfactory one. That fiasco aside, he was known to be the cleverest of the gods, having found a way to rescue both Inanna from the underworld and humankind from extermination in
 the great flood. FTP, name the Sumerian deity who, like his Babylonian counterpart Ea, was associated with water and wisdom.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Enki}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. Dating back to it are stromatolites from metamorphic rocks of the Fortescue and Warrawoona groups in Western Australia. Since the term \'93Hadean\'94
 was introduced to designate geological time from the origin of the earth, this era appears to pick up where the \'93Hadean\'94 terminates--with the oldest terrestrial rocks 3.8 billion years ago. FTP, name this geologic era, itsel
f divided into the Archeozoic and Proterozoic eras, in which the earliest forms of life appear. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Precambrian}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 16. He has disappeared from the rap scene, and is now studying for a degree in Japanese, a fittingly quirky pursuit. He got his start as 
a member of the San Francisco based Hieroglyphics Crew, and was given a record contract when his cousin, Ice Cube, agreed to produce his first album. The laid-back tales of everyday life in the inner-city he spun distinguished him from increasingly popula
r gansta rap outfits, but it also limited his commercial appeal, and he was dropped from his label after his 1993 album, }{\i\f5\fs18 No Need for Alarm}{\f5\fs18 , stiffed. FTP, name this rapper whose distinctive style is heard on such tracks as \'93
Pissin\rquote  on Your Steps\'94 and \'93The Wacky World of Rapid Transit\'94 from his classic 1991 debut }{\i\f5\fs18 I Wish My Brother George was Here}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Del tha Funkee Homosapien}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 17. It was produced by Hagesander, Polydorus, and Athenodorus of Rhodes, and Pliny says that it was in the palace of the emperor 
Titus. It popped up again in 1506 on the Esquiline Hill in Rome in the presence of Michelangelo, and became the center of a debate between Winckelmann, who thought it exemplified the dignity of the tragic hero, and Gotthold Lessing, who used it to attack 
Neoclassical ideals of beauty. FTP, name the statue-group, which depicts the strangling by sea serpents of two boys and a Trojan priest.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Laoco\'9an}{\f5\fs18  and his sons
\par 
\par 18. The event for which he became famous took place at Groote Schuur Hospital in December
, 1967. Philip Blaiberg, the second to undergo the procedure, survived for 594 days, though the first patient, Louis Washkansky, died of pneumonia after just 18 days. FTP, name the South African doctor who performed the first successful transplant of a hu
man heart.
\par \tab Answer: Christiaan }{\f5\fs18\ul Barnard}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. The nephew of Sultan Mahmud Mirza, he took advantage of the death of Sikandir Lodi to launch his military campaign. 
With a strategy involving the deployment of matchlockmen and mobile field guns against an enemy whose notions of military honor tended to spurn firearms, he defeated Ibrahim Lodi at Panipat in 1526 with a relatively small force. FTP, name the ruler who by
 1530 had founded the Mughal regime in India.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Babur}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 20. His novels }{\i\f5\fs18 Past All Dishonor}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Mignon}{\f5\fs18 , unlike most of his work, are historical fictions set just after the Civil War. After writing editorials for the New York }{\i\f5\fs18 World}{\f5\fs18 
 under Walter Lippmann, he became managing editor of the }{\i\f5\fs18 New Yorker}{\f5\fs18  in 1931, but gave that up after 10 months to go to Hollywood, where he wrote such novels as }{\i\f5\fs18 Love\rquote s Lovely Counterfeit}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 
Career in C Major}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Embezzler}{\f5\fs18 . FTP, identify this noir writer, best known for }{\i\f5\fs18 Mildred Pierce}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Double Indemnity}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Postman Always Rings Twice}{
\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: James Mallahan }{\f5\fs18\ul Cain}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT1. Its film packs contain jelly-like developer-fixer reagents, negative film, and positive light-insensitive white paper. After exposure, the film is pres
sed against the paper by steel rolls; the reagents are spread between the film and the paper; and a positive image is formed by diffusion on the receiving sheet. FTP, name the optical system devised in 1947 by the American physicist Edwin Land, the first 
to create a finished black-and-white photograph in one minute.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Polaroid}{\f5\fs18  camera
\par 
\par OT2. Its pretext was the rise to power of an extreme Syrian government, presenting a challenge to Gamal Nasser\rquote s hegemony among Arab leaders, while Jordan was also thre
atened if they were to fail to support the Palestinian guerrilla forces. The Egyptians and Jordanians therefore began to unite for an attack on Israel, who subsequently repelled the Jordanians and destroyed the Egyptians in the Sinai desert. FTP, name the
 1967 war in which Israel won frontiers on the Jordan River, Golan Heights, and Suez Canal.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Six Days}{\f5\fs18 \rquote  War
\par 
\par OT3. Onomastic comedy pervades this novel, in which the character of Thomas von der Trave represents Thomas Mann. Jakob Burckhardt makes 
an appearance as Father Jacobus, as does Friedrich Nietzsche as the brilliant but unbalanced Fritz Tegularius. FTP, identify the Bildungsroman featuring an activity invented by Bastion Perrot of Calw, who gets his name from the owner of a machine shop whe
re Hermann Hesse once worked for a year after dropping out of school.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Magister Ludi}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Glass Bead Game}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18 Das}{\i\f5\fs18\ul  Glasperlenspiel}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par An examination by forty professors displayed her great learning, and she subsequently began writing poems as lady-in-waiting to the viceroy\rquote 
s wife. Entering a convent at nineteen, she filled her cell with books and scientific instruments, and, when it was suggested that her time be better spent in prayer, wrote a treatise detailing her struggles as a female intellectual i
n the 17th century. FTP, name this first American feminist, the subject of a 1982 study by Octavio Paz, subtitled }{\i\f5\fs18 The Traps of Faith}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Sor (Sister) }{\f5\fs18\ul Juana}{\f5\fs18  In\'8es de la Cruz (Juana Ram\rquote rez de Asbaje)
\par 
\par As a child, she pursued a rigorous education at home, steeping herself in the classics and in German. In 1844, }{\i\f5\fs18 Summer on the Lakes}{\f5\fs18 
, an account of a trip to the Midwest, led Horace Greeley to hire her as literary critic for his New York Tribune, making her one of the first self-supporting American woman jou
rnalists. FTP, name the intellectual who died in a shipwreck off Fire Island, New York, in 1850, best known for befriending Emerson and editing }{\i\f5\fs18 The Dial}{\f5\fs18  from 1840 to 1842.
\par \tab Answer: Margaret }{\f5\fs18\ul Fuller}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \page }{\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f5\fs18 Boni by Carleton B
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Name these Native American chiefs, for 10 points each.
\par 1. In 1864, certain that the war with the Cheyenne and Arapaho was over, he led his followers to camp on Sand Creek in southeastern Colorado, only to to be massacred by Colonel John Chivington.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Black Kettle}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Born Tatanka Yotanka, this Hunkpapa Sioux leader was killed in 1890 when a group of policemen tried to arrest him.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Sitting Bull}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. When the army intervened to stop the Ghost Dances, frightened Teton Sioux Indians fled to join other dancers under this aging chief, whose followers were eventually massacred at Wounded Knee Creek.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Big Foot}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following things concerning fusion, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) The small binding energy of this hydrogen isotope and related low fusion temperature makes it a likely fuel candidate for energy-producing fusion.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul deuterium}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) This doughnut-shaped device uses an axial magnetic field to contain the plasma during fusion.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul tokamak}{\f5\fs18  
\par 3. (15 points) Five points for one or 15 points for both, name the two Soviet physicists who first proposed the tokamak in 1951.
\par \tab Answer: Andrei }{\f5\fs18\ul Sakharov}{\f5\fs18  and Igor }{\f5\fs18\ul Tamm}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. Name the South American cities, for 10 points each.
\par 1. Its name in Quechuan means \'93navel,\'94 perhaps referring to the sharply defined borders of the Andean mountain basin in which it lies, 400 miles southeast of Lima.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Cuzco}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. It is Ecuador\rquote s chief port and most populous city; on its waterfont is a statue commemorating a famous meeting between San Mart\rquote n and Sim\emdash n Bol\rquote var in July 1822.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Guayaquil}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Perched at an altitude of 13,340 feet, this \'93imperial city\'94 of Bolivia became legendary when the vast wealth of its silver mines was discovered in the 1540s.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Potos\rquote }{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 4. Name the political informants from the Nixon presidency, FTP each.
\par 1. This defense analyst photocopied thousands of pages from the Pentagon Papers and, when several senators showed little interest in the documents, went to the New York Times.
\par \tab Answer: Daniel }{\f5\fs18\ul Ellsberg}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This White House counsel successfully directed the Watergate cover-up, but would later reveal Nixon\rquote s personal involvement.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Dean}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Of the Watergate burglers who were sentenced to long jail terms, he was the first to crack, admitting that he had received money from the White House and had been promised a future pardon in return for his silence.
\par \tab Answer: James }{\f5\fs18\ul McCord}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 5. Name these medieval European authors, for 10 points each.
\par 1. This French poet wrote some of the earliest surviving Arthurian romances, including }{\i\f5\fs18 Percival, or the Story of the Grail}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Lancelot, or the Knight of the Cart}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Chr\'8etien}{\f5\fs18  de Troyes
\par 2. Among the works of this Spanish bishop are the }{\i\f5\fs18 Tractatus de fide catholica contra Iudaeos}{\f5\fs18  and the encyclopedic }{\i\f5\fs18 Etymologies}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Isidore}{\f5\fs18  of Seville
\par 3. This German mystic illustrated her own visions in her Latin }{\i\f5\fs18 Scivias}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Know the Ways}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hildegard}{\f5\fs18  of Bingen
\par 
\par 6. Identify these anesthetics, for 10 points each.
\par 1. Discovered in 1540 by the German botanist Valerius Cordus, this \'93sweet oil of vitriol\'94 was used in the 19th century as the first successful anesthetic.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul ether}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Ether, which irritated the lungs and caused vomiting, was soon displaced by this drug, discovered in 1831, which was powerful and easy to administer.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul chloroform}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. In 1884, ophthalmologist Carl Koller made it the first local anesthetic after receiving information on its use from Sigmund Freud. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul cocaine}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 7. Name these theologians, for 10 points each.
\par 1. He was known in the 15th century as a brilliant student at Padua, a papal legate at age 25, and an influential figure at the Council of Basel. His most famous work is }{\i\f5\fs18 On Learned Ignorance.}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Nicholas}{\f5\fs18  of Cusa (Nicholas }{\f5\fs18\ul Cusanus}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. His }{\i\f5\fs18 The Christian Faith}{\f5\fs18  established systematic theology, and his belief in the equality of the sexes is evidenced in }{\i\f5\fs18 Ten Commandments for Noble-minded Women}{\f5\fs18 , though he is best known for 1799's }{
\i\f5\fs18 On Religion: Speeches to Its Cultured Despisers}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Friedrich }{\f5\fs18\ul Schleiermacher}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. In 1936 he was forbidden by the Nazis to lecture or publish. Arrested later on suspicion of treason, he responded with }{\i\f5\fs18 Letters and Papers from Prison}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Dietrich }{\f5\fs18\ul Bonhoeffer}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. Name these Vietnamese political leaders--none of whom is Ho Chi Minh--for 10 points each.
\par 1. The French established a friendly Vietnamese government under him in 1948.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Bao}{\f5\fs18  Dai
\par 2. Supported by the United States, this non-Communist nationalist established a Republic of Vietnam in 1955, only to be overthrown and murdered eight years later.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ngo}{\f5\fs18  Dinh Diem
\par 3. The United States was deeply involved in the plot against Diem, having decided to shift their support to this leader of South Vietnam from 1966 to 1975.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Nguyen}{\f5\fs18  Van Thieu
\par 
\par 9. Identify these symphonic poems by Richard Strauss, for 10 points each.
\par 1. In the form of a free sonata Allegro with a slow introduction and a hymnlike epilogue, it concerns the progress of soul through suffering to self-fulfillment.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Tod und Verkl\'8arung}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18\ul Death and Transfiguration}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. It is a musical commentary on Friedrich Nietzsche\rquote s prose-poem proclaiming the doctrine that the Christian ethic should be replaced by the ideal of a superman who is above good and evil.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Also sprach Zarathustra}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18\ul Thus Spoke Zoroaster}{\f5\fs18 , but accept equivalents)
\par 3. The realistic details of the title character\rquote s adventures are so thoroughly blended into the musical flow that it could easily be heard as a character sketch of an appealing rascal.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Till Eulenspiegels lustige Streiche}{\f5\fs18  (}{\i\f5\fs18\ul Till Eulenspiegel\rquote s Merry Pranks}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 10. Name the Renaissance philosophers, for 10 points each.
\par 1. He was one of the first Christian scholars of the Cabala, and at age 23 offered to take on all challenges to his 900 theses summarizing all knowledge.
\par \tab Answer: Giovanni }{\f5\fs18\ul Pico}{\f5\fs18  della Mirandola
\par 2. The first and most influential Platonist of the Renaissance, he attempted to reconcile Neoplatonism with Christian thought in his }{\i\f5\fs18 The Platonic Theology of the Immortality of Souls}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Marsilio }{\f5\fs18\ul Ficino}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. His philosophical works include }{\i\f5\fs18 The Ash Wednesday Supper}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Heroic Frenzies}{\f5\fs18 , and his play }{\i\f5\fs18 Il candelaio}{\f5\fs18 
 criticized pedantry and homosexuality. Due to his unorthodox views, he was burned at the stake in Rome.
\par \tab Answer: Giordano }{\f5\fs18\ul Bruno}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. Identify the painting from a description, FTP each. You'll only receive 5 points if you need the name of the painter.
\par 1. (10 points) Four diagrammatic birds appear to be forced into fluttering action by the turning of a crank-driven gadget.
\par (5 points) Paul Klee
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Twittering Machine}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) Three sour-visaged and repulsive-looking females are represented as disgustingly smug and smirking because of their ancestral claim to be heroes of the American Revolution.
\par (5 points) Grant Wood
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Daughters of the Revolution}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) The upper portion contains the mechanized form of a woman accompanied by a cloud-shaped area of \'93blossoming." Represented in the lower half is a circle of nine \'93manic molds,\'94
 whose shapes were based on the silhouettes of uniformed Frenchmen.
\par (5 points) Marcel Duchamp
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Large Glass}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12. Name the Russian poets, FTP each.
\par 1. His }{\i\f5\fs18 The Morning of Acmeism}{\f5\fs18  served as the movement's manifesto, and he wrote the }{\i\f5\fs18 Voronezh Notebooks}{\f5\fs18  while in internal exile for an epigram he wrote on Stalin.
\par \tab Answer: Osip }{\f5\fs18\ul Mandelstam}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. His collections of verse include }{\i\f5\fs18 Over the Barriers}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 My Sister -- Life}{\f5\fs18 , though his best known poems were included in a novel for which he won the Nobel Prize in 1958.
\par \tab Answer: Boris }{\f5\fs18\ul Pasternak}{\f5\fs18  
\par 3. Born Iosif Alexandrovitch in Leningrad, this future Nobel Prize winner was exiled to Siberia in the mid-1960s. He immigrated to America in 1972, where he published his third book of verse, }{\i\f5\fs18 The End of a Lovely Era}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Joseph }{\f5\fs18\ul Brodsky}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 13. Given a description, identify the earth science term beginning with a \'93B,\'94 for 10 points each.
\par 1. A large, intrusive mass of igneous rock, typically granite, outcropping to at least 100 square kilometers and extending to unknown depth.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul batholith}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This coarse sedimentary rock consists of angular fragments cemented together by minerals.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul breccia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The volcanic origin of this type of metamorphic rock was correctly identified by Desmarest in 1777. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul basalt
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 14. Identify these Chinese rebellions, for 10 points each.
\par 1. Marking the decline of the T\rquote ang dynasty, it is named after the general who forced the flight of the emperor and his court to southwest China in the mid-7th century.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul An Lu-shan}{\f5\fs18  Rebellion
\par 2. Begun in 1796 as a protest against the exactions of minor tax collectors, it was associated with the cult that phrophesied the restoration of the Ming dynasty.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul White Lotus}{\f5\fs18  Rebellion
\par 3. After 1850 the Quing regime was almost overwhelmed by widespread rebellions in support of a militant Christian faith led by Hong Xiuquan, who proclaimed himself Heavenly King of a new dynasty.
\par \tab Answer: Great }{\f5\fs18\ul Taiping}{\f5\fs18  Rebellion
\par 
\par 15. Name the play from a brief plot description, for 10 points; or 5 points, if you need its author.
\par 1. (10 points) Set in 1937 in Pittsburgh, it revolves around the conflict between a brother and a sister, Boy Willie and Berniece, and their relationship to a musical instrument.
\par (5 points) August Wilson
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Piano Lesson}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) Stanley Webber, pampered by his landlady, finds his comfortable life interrupted by the arrival of the sinister men Goldberg and McCann, agents of an unknown person, who are ostensibly looking for rooms.
\par (5 points) Harold Pinter
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Birthday Party}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) In a spoof of Agatha Christie\rquote s play }{\i\f5\fs18 The Mousetrap}{\f5\fs18 , the lives of Birdfoot and Moon become entangled with those of the characters in the play they are supposedly reviewing.
\par (5 points) Tom Stoppard
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Real Inspector Hound}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 16. Name these star catalogers, for 10 points each.
\par 1. This 2nd-century B.C. Greek astronomer created the first accurate star map against which any future suspected movements might be tested and started the practice of specifying star positions using two coordinates.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hipparchus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Published in 1781, his catalogue of over 100 nebulae and galaxies is still used today for nearby objects.
\par \tab Answer: Charles }{\f5\fs18\ul Messier}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Although he died eight years earlier, the first volume of his catalog was published in 1890, listing the spectral types and magnitudes of over 10,000 stars.
\par \tab Answer: Henry }{\f5\fs18\ul Draper}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 17. Identify the following concerning archaeological dating methods, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This study of tree-ring patterns is used both as a measure of environmental change and as a dating system.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul dendrochronology}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) This relative dating method is based on the chronological ordering of a group of artifacts, where the most similar are placed adjacent to each other in the series.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul seriation}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) This Swedish term identifies the fine layers of alluvial sediment deposited biannually in glacial lakes, sometimes containing as many as 24,000 layers.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul varve}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par 18. Name the utopian socialists, for 10 points each.
\par 1. He was the earliest utopian reformer, and societies for the discussion of advanced social ideals such as social equality and disarmament were named after him. 
\par \tab Answer: Claude Henri de }{\f5\fs18\ul Saint-Simon}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. He first put his ideas into practice at his cotton factory in New Lanark, Scotland. After his New Harmony, Indiana settlement failed, he tried to organize all British trade unions under a Grand National Union.
\par \tab Answer: Robert }{\f5\fs18\ul Owen}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. He advocated the construction of communities called phalanxes, groups comprising some 1600 persons in which agrarian rather than industrial production would predominate.
\par \tab Answer: Fran\u141\'8dois Marie Charles }{\f5\fs18\ul Fourier}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. Identify the following things having to do with the cycloid, FTP each.
\par 1. This problem\rquote s solution affirmed that the time a particle takes to slide to the bottom of an inverted cycloid is independent of its initial position.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Tautochrone}{\f5\fs18  problem
\par 2. The cycloid was also the solution to this problem, finding the curve along which a particle would slide in the shortest time.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Brachistochrone}{\f5\fs18  problem
\par 3. Name either of the scientists who solved the Tautochrone and Brachistochrone problems, for a final ten points.
\par \tab Answer: Christian }{\f5\fs18\ul Huygens}{\f5\fs18  (Tautochrone) or }{\f5\fs18\ul Johann}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul Jean}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul John}{\f5\fs18 ) }{\f5\fs18\ul Bernoulli}{\f5\fs18  (Brachistochrone)
\par 
\par 20. Name the pioneers in historical linguistics, for fifteen points each.
\par 1. With the 1846 publication of his translation of the inscription of Darius from the cliff face at Behistun, he is credited as the first to decipher cuneiform.
\par \tab Answer: Henry Creswicke }{\f5\fs18\ul Rawlinson}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. In 1952, this British architect announced that, in his spare time, he had deciphered the Minoan script known as Linear B.
\par \tab Answer: Michael }{\f5\fs18\ul Ventris
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par Given a quote from }{\i\f5\fs18 The Odyssey}{\f5\fs18 , name its speaker, for 15 points each; or 5 points, if you need a second quote.
\par 1. (15 points) \'93Come then, put away your sword in its sheath, and let us two go up into my bed so that, lying together in the bed of love, we may have faith and trust in each other.\'94
\par (5 points) \'93The wonder is on me that you drank my drugs and have not been enchanted, for no other man beside could have stood up under my drugs, once he drank and they passed the barrier of his teeth.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Circe}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (15 points) \'93Stranger, you must come from the other end of nowhere, else you are a great booby, having to ask what place this is.\'94
\par (5 points) Two of a kind, we are, contrivers, both. Of all men now alive you are the best in plots and story telling. My own fame is for wisdom among the gods--deceptions, too.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Athena}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Name the historical work by Xenophon, for 10 points each.
\par 1. The first two books of his history of Greece continue where Thucydides left off, carrying the story of the Peloponnesian War down to its end in 404 B.C.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Hellenica}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. It is an adventure story of the march of 10,000 Greek brigands through the heart of the Persian empire, told by one of its leaders.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Anabasis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This very long and completely fictitious account of the education and exploits of Cyrus the Great can claim to be the first historical novel.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Cyropedia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }}