{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff12\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York;}{\f195\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f196\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f198\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f199\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f200\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f201\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f202\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext16 Word4095Null;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Heading 11;}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext18 Default Paragraph Font1;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Body Text;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo2\dy15\hr17\min13}{\revtim\yr2001\mo2\dy15\hr17\min18}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages8}
{\nofwords3836}{\nofchars21868}{\nofcharsws26855}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale90\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Tossups by Carleton A
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. While in politics, he sold prisoners to the British for use in the American Revolution. He served under D
uke Charles Augustus, despite Napoleon trying to lure him to France. While in Weimar he fell in love with Charlotte von Stein but in 1786 made a long visit to Italy, where he wrote the }{\i\f5\fs18 Roman Elegies}{\f5\fs18 
. He then returned to Germany and became friends with Schiller. FTP, name this author of }{\i\f5\fs18 Elective Affinities}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The Sorrows of Young Werther}{\f5\fs18  (VUR-ter) and }{\i\f5\fs18 Faust}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Johann Wolfgang von }{\f5\fs18\ul Goethe}{\f5\fs18  (GUR-tuh)
\par 
\par 2. The first jet airplane carrier was named after this man. A naval aviator in World War I, he then became 
head of a Wall Street firm, in which capacity he testified before Congress on regulating securities. Roosevelt appointed him as undersecretary of the navy, where his business expertise helped him build up military supplies before World War II. He then bec
ame secretary of the Navy. FTP, identify the administrator who in 1947 became the first secretary of Defense, only to commit suicide two years later by jumping out of his hospital window.
\par \tab Answer: James Vincent }{\f5\fs18\ul Forrestal}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. The 400 sons try to kill Alligator by burying him alive. One-Blowgunner and Jaguar Deer, also known as the Hero Twins, defeat Seven Macaw and take his silver and jade in this book, whose title translates as "the book of the written leaves" from Quich
\'8e. Written in the 16}{\f5\fs18\up6 th}{\f5\fs18  century and discovered by Guatemalan priest Francisco Jiminez in the 18}{\f5\fs18\up6 th}{\f5\fs18 , FTP name this sacred book of the Mayans.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Popol Vuh}{\f5\fs18  (prompt on }{\f5\fs18\ul Maya}{\f5\fs18 n mythology on early buzz)
\par 
\par 4. First detected in 1965 by radio astronomers studying the Orion nebula, Earth-bound attempt
s at producing this phenomenon were made twelve years earlier by Charles Townes. Molecules undergoing this process are rapidly excited into higher energy states, resulting in amplified emission in spectral energies in the megahertz and gigahertz regimes. 
FTP, name this radiation mechanism, the molecular analogue of the more well-know photon cascade used in pointing devices and eye surgery.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul maser}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 5. Crescent in shape, this lake's tribut
aries include the Dranse and the Venoge. Periods when the water mass shifts from one end to another are known as seiches. At one end of the 45 mile long lake lies the world's highest waterspout, constructed by the wealthy citizens of the town from which i
t derives its name. Lying on the Rhone river, other cities along it include Montreaux (mon-TRO) and Lausanne (law-SAHN). FTP, name this Swiss body of water.
\par \tab Answer: Lake }{\f5\fs18\ul Geneva}{\f5\fs18  or Lac }{\f5\fs18\ul L\'8eman}{\f5\fs18  or Lac de }{\f5\fs18\ul Gen\u143\'8fve}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 6. He wrote the novels }{\i\f5\fs18 The Suffrage of Elvira}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Miguel Street}{\f5\fs18  while living in England. }{\i\f5\fs18 Among the Believers: An Islamic Journey}{\f5\fs18  focuses on Indonesia, India is the subject of }{
\i\f5\fs18 An Area of Darkness}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 India: A Million Mutinies Now}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 A Bend in the River}{\f5\fs18  is about Africa. Knighted in 1989, FTP, name this Trinidad born author of}{\i\f5\fs18 
 A House for Mr. Biswas}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: V(idiadhar) S(urajprasad) }{\f5\fs18\ul Naipaul}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 7. New laws inspired by this group allow a court to keep a lawyer from serving a client if criminal activity between them is suspected, and to continue a trial during a defendant's absence if the defendant is missing due to his own activities, i.e. a hung
e
r strike. Some of the many crimes they were tried for include the kidnapping of Peter Lorenz, a Christian Democrat candidate for mayor of West Berlin, though they are better known for a 1976 airplane hijacking in Entebbe, Uganda. FTP, identify this terror
ist organization started by Ulrike Meinhof and Andreas Baader.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Red Army Faction}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Rote Armee Fraktion}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul Baader-Meinhof}{\f5\fs18  Gang or Gruppe on early buzz)
\par 
\par 8. John Dinkeloo, the head engineer of this project, needed 886 tons of stainless steel, mo
re than any other construction ever. The sides are made of two layers of steel with concrete in between, 54 feet across on the ground and 17 feet at the 630 foot high top. The two bases are equilateral triangles on foundations 60 feet deep, and form a cat
enary curve. FTP, name this monument designed by Eero Saarinen and located in St. Louis.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\f5\fs18\ul Gateway Arch}{\f5\fs18  (accept early }{\f5\fs18\ul St. Louis Arch}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 9. The text of this book was supposedly found in a drawer by its editor, Victor Eremita. It is divided into two
 halves. The first, with sections like the Diapsalmata, The Unhappiest One, and The Seducer's Diary, is an exposition of aesthetics. The second, written by Judge Wilhelm, is a defense of marriage as the ethical lifestyle. Both can be read in terms of the 
author's failed relationship with Regine Olsen. It concludes with a priest suggesting religion as the synthesis of the two positions. FTP, name this book examining the dialectic of life, a disjunctive work by S\'bfren Kierkegaard.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Either/Or}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx735\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 10. His name is given to the corpuscle that includes the glomerulus and Bowman\rquote 
s capsule in the nephron. His studies of plants led him to support Tournfort\rquote s denial of the sexuality of plants, but in his more successful studies of animals he was the first to identi
fy the taste buds and observe red blood cells. FTP, identify this early microscopic anatomist who verified Harvey\rquote 
s thesis of blood circulation via his observation of capillaries, an Italian after whom the excretory tubule found in many insects is named.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Marcello }{\f5\fs18\ul Malpighi}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. The defender had dug in around three hills, the strongest of which was known as the Grand Redoubt. The battle featured the largest artillery duel until the 20}{\f5\fs18\up6 th}{\f5\fs18  century, and by the end of the fighting on September 7, more tha
n 74,000 men had died on the field. Although Marshal Ney asked for the Imperial Guard to break through enemy lines, Napoleon saved it and General Kutuzov kept the Russian army intact. FTP, name this battle that took place 70 miles from Moscow, a Pyrrhic v
ictory for the French.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Borodino}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12. Each arm of the cross of this church is topped with a dome topped by a lantern, visible from sea. Begun in 1063, its altar screen is the Pala d'Oro, with 3000 jewels inlaid in gold. The building sits overlooking
 a square facing the Campanile and next to the Doge's Palace. FTP, name this resting place of a saint whose body was stolen in 828 by two Venetians.
\par \tab Answer: Basilica di }{\f5\fs18\ul San Marco}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Saint Mark}{\f5\fs18 's Basilica
\par 
\par 13. The son of an embroiderer, he was going to be 
a priest until he had an affair with a married woman. When their relationship ended, he wrote such vitriol against her family that he was imprisoned. His career began with poetry, but he switched to drama after the publication of }{\i\f5\fs18 
The New Art of Writing Plays in This Time}{\f5\fs18  in 1609. Some of those plays were }{\i\f5\fs18 The Gardener's Dog}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 All Citizens are Soldiers}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Knight from Olmedo}{\f5\fs18 
. Known as The Phoenix of Spanish Wit, FTP, name this member of Spain's Golden Age who penned over 1,800 plays.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Lope}{\f5\fs18  (LOW-pay) (Felix) de Vega (Carpio)
\par 
\par 14. It began with the Tremadocian age and ended with the Ashgillian. Laurentia was in the tropics, while Gondwanaland lay over the South Pole. 
After the decline of the trilobites in the previous period, a mass of other marine invertebrates thrived. FTP, name this period of the Paleozoic era before the Silurian and after the Cambrian.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ordovician}{\f5\fs18  period
\par 
\par 15. Chao K'uang-yin established thi
s politically weak dynasty after centuries of disunity. He expanded the civil service system while Wang An-shih (an-shuh) instituted reform. Culture flourished, producing jade art and elaborate pottery. Neo-Confucianism spread, and the poets Lu Yu and Li 
Ch'ing-chao wrote. Inventions included paper money, gunpowder, the compass, and movable type. Divided into Northern and Southern periods, FTP, name this Chinese dynasty coming before the T'ang.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Sung}{\f5\fs18  dynasty
\par 
\par 16. The character of Boythorn was ba
sed on Walter Savage Landor, Hortense was inspired by the Belgian murderess Maria Manning, and Harold Skimpole is a caricature of Leigh Hunt. The orphaned female protagonist appears to be modeled on the author's sister-in-law, Georgina Hogarth, and other 
characters include Sir Leicester Deadlock, the obnoxious Mrs. Jellyby, and Mr. Krook, who spontaneously combusts. The main character, Esther Summerson, is the ward of Mr. Jarndyce, who is, FTP, the owner of what titular Dickens domicile?
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Bleak House}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
17. This book opens with a quotation from a French priest commenting that religion gives many people an "oceanic feeling" in response to the author's previous publication which attacked religion as an illusion. It traces the parallel development of Eros
 and Thanatos in the course of human society. FTP, name this 1930 work by Freud which explains why some people don't like their own culture.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul 
Civilization and Its Discontents}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Das }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Unbehagen in der Kultur}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. A student of Johannes Muller, he bega
n his career in the mid-nineteenth century, studying the connection between nerve fibers and cells and inventing the myograph to measure the speed of nerve impulses. His more lasting accomplishments were in the area of physics, where his work on magnetic 
fields and current led to Maxwell\rquote s development of the displacement current and he served as mentor to Planck. FTP, name this postulator of the electron and the conservation of energy.
\par \tab Answer: Hermann von }{\f5\fs18\ul Helmholtz
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par 19. The epigraph to this piece is the qu
ote "Their foot shall slide in due time" from Deuteronomy. First appearing in 1741 in Enfield, Massachusetts, it postulates that only the grace of God keeps people from their natural place in Hell. God is all powerful, and keeps people dangling like a spi
der over the fire. FTP, identify this most famous sermon of Jonathan Edwards.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul 
Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 20. He began a novel, }{\i\f5\fs18 Die Davidsbundler}{\f5\fs18 , in 1831 while studying piano under his future father-in-law. He later used the names of two
 of its characters, Florestan and Eusebius, to describe his own split personality. That mental illness led him to throw himself into the Rhine in 1854, and he died two years later in a sanatorium near Bonn, where the only visitor he welcomed was Brahms. F
TP, name this German composer of the Rhenish and Spring Symphonies, who was married to Clara.
\par \tab Answer: Robert }{\f5\fs18\ul Schumann}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT1. First suggested in 1729, this political idea advocated strengthening marriage and lessening economic inequality to relieve a depress
ion and famine. The regulation came from Psalmanazar, a native of Taiwan, who was shocked at the numbers of evicted tenants in London. FTP, Jonathan Swift made what suggestion to solve Ireland's problems by eating babies?\tab 
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 A}{\f5\fs18  }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Modest Proposal}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT2. Their capital was at Avaris, and their last great king was Apopis I. The 3}{\f5\fs18\up6 rd}{\f5\fs18 
 century B.C. historian Manetho gave this group the name we know them by, which means "shepherds," but they were hardly peaceful, conquering Kush and most of the northern Nile delt
a. They fell to Theban revolutionaries. FTP, name these expert archers and charioteers who conquered Egypt.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Hyksos}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT
3. This city, whose name comes from the Celtic for "white field," houses the International Atomic Energy Commission, the headquarters of OPEC, and the Albertina Collection of drawings and prints. Fischer von Erlach is responsible for much of its architect
u
re including the Winter Palace of Prince Eugene of Savoy. Joseph Roth eulogized it, Robert Musil analyzed it, Karl Kraus satirized it, and Franz Kafka terrorized it. This world-class culture was propagated in the famous cafes of, FTP, what Austrian capita
l?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Vienna}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Wien}{\f5\fs18  (veen)
\par 
\par William Winder was assigned to protect this city as Robert Ross led forty-five hundred troops up the Patuxent river. Mayor James Blake issued an evacuation notice, and the citizens fled. On August 24, the battle of Bladens
burg began, with the British winning easily with a new weapon called the Congreve rocket despite Commodore Joshua Barney's valiant defense. FTP, name the American town George Cockburn (CO-burn) occupied and burned in 1814.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Washington}{\f5\fs18 , District of Columbia
\par 
\par He's not Leonardo, but he was quite a Renaissance man, proposing flying machines and motorized ships. Following Alexander of Hales, whom he heard lecture in Paris, he wanted to expand university courses to include natural science. He proposed the
 compilation of an encyclopedia, produced under papal direction, and he ended up writing part of another by himself. The first European to describe gunpowder, For 10 points\emdash name this English friar, philosopher and alchemist of the 13th century.

\par \tab Answer: Roger Bacon
\par 
\par Jos\'8e Orozco and Thomas Hart Benton painted murals of social reform at this institution, which was founded by Charles Beard and John Dewey in 1919. It is associated with Eugene Lang College and merged with the Parsons School of Design in 1970. Pa
st professors have included Thorstein Veblen, Erich Fromm, and Hannah Arendt. For 10 points, name this New York City university focusing on the social sciences.
\par \tab Answer: The New School for Social Research (prompt on New School)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \page }{\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f5\fs18 Boni by Carleton A
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Identify the following social reformers for 10 points each.
\par 1. He wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 The Dangerous Classes of New York, and Twenty Years' Work Among Them}{\f5\fs18  in 1872 about his life working with the Children\rquote s Aid Society. He was responsible for the program\rquote s
 huge growth; one sociologist estimated he affected three hundred thousand children.
\par \tab Answer: Charles Loring }{\f5\fs18\ul Brace}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. He worked on New York newspapers exposing corruption until 1901, when he became editor of }{\i\f5\fs18 McClure's}{\f5\fs18  and started publishing the articles collected in }{\i\f5\fs18 The Shame of the Cities}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Joseph Lincoln }{\f5\fs18\ul Steffens}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. She worked for }{\i\f5\fs18 McClure's}{\f5\fs18  at the same time as Steffens, and is best known for a muckraking classic about the Standard Oil Company.
\par \tab Answer: Ida Minerva }{\f5\fs18\ul Tarbell}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. FTP each, identify the following ways to get a computer to sort a list of items.
\par 1. Working in n squared time, this algorithm compares each pair of items in the list, swaps them if necessary, and does it all over again until the list is in order.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul \'93bubble\'94}{\f5\fs18  sort
\par 2. An improvement on the \'93bubble\'94 sort, this method operates in n log n time by partitioning the array to be sorted, and then recursively sorting each partition.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul \'93quick\'94}{\f5\fs18  sort
\par 3. This algorithm, invented in 1959 and running in n to the five-fourths time, performs an insertion sort using a large spacing and runs through with smaller and smaller spacings until the spacing is 1.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul \'93shell\'94}{\f5\fs18  sort
\par 
\par 3. Given the real name of a 20}{\f5\fs18\up6 th}{\f5\fs18  century literary titular character, give the book title for ten points each, or five if you need the author.
\par 1. (10 points) Monroe Stahr
\par (5 points) F. Scott Fitzgerald
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Last Tycoon}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) Laurel McKelva Hand
\par (5 points) Eudora Welty
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Optimist's Daughter}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) Edward Ashburnham
\par (5 points) Ford Madox Ford
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Good Soldier}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 4. Identify the following philosophers of science for 10 points each.
\par 1. Better known as an astronomer and early advocate of general relativity, this early twentieth century Englishman analyzed how the scientist imposes his own point of view on data in }{\i\f5\fs18 Science and the Unseen World}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 
The Philosophy of Physical Science}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Sir Arthur Stanley }{\f5\fs18\ul Eddington}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This British mathematician and philosopher wrote books like }{\i\f5\fs18 Science and the Modern World}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Process and Reality}{\f5\fs18 , though he's better known for a famous collaboration.
\par \tab Answer: Alfred North }{\f5\fs18\ul Whitehead}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. He also wrote political and social philosophy, but }{\i\f5\fs18 The Logic of Scientific Discovery}{\f5\fs18  postulated his famous theorem of falsifiability.
\par \tab Answer: Karl Raimund }{\f5\fs18\ul Popper}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 5. For 10 points each, identify the following political groups from Irish history.
\par 1. Arthur Griffith organized this group in 1902 in opposition to the British. It translates as "We Ourselves."
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Sinn F\'8ein}{\f5\fs18  (shin fain) the Workers' Party
\par 2. Michael Davitt founded this group in 1879, but its most influential leader was Charles Parnell. It stood for agriculture, property, and rent reform.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\f5\fs18\ul Irish Land League}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Its name translates as "Warriors of Ireland" and it is sometimes called the Republican Party. It started in 1926 in opposition to the British treaty that organized the Irish Free State, and by 1932 its leader Eamon De Valera was Prime Minister.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Fianna F\'87il}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 6. Answer these questions about a mountain, FTP each.
\par 1. Identify the highest U.S. mountain east of the Mississippi, at 6,684 feet.
\par \tab Answer: Mount }{\f5\fs18\ul Mitchell}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Mount Mitchell was named for a professor who fell climbing it and is buried at the top. What state are both his university and the mountain in?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul North Carolina}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. It is part of what division of the Appalachians, also associated with at 1950\rquote s avant-garde poetry movement?
\par \tab Answer: The }{\f5\fs18\ul Black Mountain}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par 7. Answer these questions about an anthropologist, FTP each.
\par 1. Identify the anthropologist who published }{\i\f5\fs18 Anthropology and Modern Life}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Race, Language and Culture }{\f5\fs18 after studying Native American tribes in Baffin Island and the Pacific Northwest.
\par \tab Answer: Franz }{\f5\fs18\ul Boas}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Boas studied the Kwakiutl tribe. They are known for an elaborate system of giving expensive gifts to each other almost to the point of bankruptcy. This practice is known by what 8 letter word?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul potlatch}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Boas may be best remembered for this 1911 book, which was based on his work in the Northwest.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Mind of Primitive Man}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. Answer these questions about dinosaur classification, FTP each.
\par 1. One common area used in classification is the hip bones. Five points for two and 10 points for all three, give the three bones that make up the pelvis.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul ilium}{\f5\fs18 , }{\f5\fs18\ul ischium}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\f5\fs18\ul pubis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. A subgroup of the larger order of dinosaurs whose pubis points downward and forward at an angle to the ischium, it contains the Apatosaurus and Brachiosaurus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul sauropod}{\f5\fs18 s or }{\f5\fs18\ul sauropoda}{\f5\fs18  (prompt on saurischian)
\par 3. Another member of the sauropods was the longest land animal ever, reaching lengths of over 80 feet long. Identify this genus which comes from the Greek for "double beam\'94.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul diplodocus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 9. For 10 points each identify the fictional title animal from a description of the work it features in, or from the author for 5 points.
\par 1. (10 points) The novel is about Don Fabrizio, a prince in Sicily who watches the conquests of Garibaldi and unification of Italy.
\par (5 points) Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Leopard}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Il }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Gattopardo}{\f5\fs18  
\par 2. (10 points) Hjalmar Ekdal rejects his daughter Hedvig, who is associated with the title animal.
\par (5 points) Henrik Ibsen
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Wild Duck}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) Nina refuses the advances of Trepliov for Trigorin and he commits suicide even after she returns.
\par (5 points) Anton Chekhov
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Seagull}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 10. Answer these questions about an ancient Mesopotamian kingdom for 10 point each.
\par 1. Ruling approximately from 2334 to 2279 BC, this was the first king to unite southern Mesopotamia, as well as pats of Syria and Iraq. He is considered the founder of the first Semitic dynasty.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Sargon I}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Sargon}{\f5\fs18  the }{\f5\fs18\ul Great}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Sargon's capital city has the same name as the language he popularized. Name either of them.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Akkad}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Akkadian}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
3. The only contemporary account of Sargon's reign has been found in this nearby city. The capital of the Elamites, Darius and his successors ruled from this city. It is also where the code of Hammurabi was found.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Susa}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. "A speeding car is more beautiful than the }{\i\f5\fs18 Victory of Samothrace}{\f5\fs18 ."
\par 1. (5 points) This was the motto of what Italian art movement?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Futurism}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Futurismo}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) Name the poet who penned the Futurist manifesto in 1909.
\par \tab Answer: Filippo Tommaso }{\f5\fs18\ul Marinetti}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (15 points) As a painter, he used cubism to communicate motion in }{\i\f5\fs18 Dynamism of a Cyclist}{\f5\fs18 . As a sculptor, he got more abstract, titling one work }{\i\f5\fs18 Unique Forms of Continuity in Space}{\f5\fs18 
. For 15 points, name the author of the }{\i\f5\fs18 Manifesto of Futurist Sculpture}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Umberto }{\f5\fs18\ul Boccioni}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12. Answer these questions about math, FTP each.
\par 1. Name the German mathematician who described a theory of the continuum of numbers by making "cuts" in the number line.
\par \tab Answer: (Julius Wilhelm) Richard }{\f5\fs18\ul Dedekind}{\f5\fs18  (ded-uh-kihnd)
\par 2. If after making a Dedekind cut, neither section of the number line has a largest or a smallest member, the cut belongs to this class of numbers.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul irrational}{\f5\fs18  numbers
\par 3. Like his collaborator Cantor, Dedekind defined this property as the state where a set cannot be placed in one-to-one correspondence with one of its subsets.
\par \tab Answer: it is }{\f5\fs18\ul infinite}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul infinity}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 13. Answer these questions about a legendary figure, FTP each.
\par 1. He had seven fingers on each hand, seven toes on each foot, and seven pupils in each eye. Name this Celtic hero, greatest of the knights of Ulster.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul C\'9cchulainn}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul C\'9c Chulain}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul C\'9cchullin}{\f5\fs18  (koo kuh lane)
\par 2. Originally named Setanta, C\'9c Chulain took his better known name after he killed what kind of animal, a pet of Culann?
\par \tab Answer: a }{\f5\fs18\ul dog}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul hound}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. C\'9c Chulain was a member of what arboreal group of knights?
\par \tab Answer: Knights of the }{\f5\fs18\ul Red Branch
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 14. Identify the following Romantic poets from descriptions of their early deaths for 10 points each.
\par 1. Tuberculosis overtook this 26 year old poet as he visited Rome in 1821.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Keats}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Born Friedrich Leopold, Baron Von Hardenberg, this German died at 29, also from TB.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Novalis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. He made it all the way to 37 before being shot in a duel defending the honor of his wife Natalya Goncharova.
\par \tab Answer: Aleksandr }{\f5\fs18\ul Pushkin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. Answer these questions about an Italian composer, FTP each.
\par 1. His first two operas were }{\i\f5\fs18 Thomas Chatterton}{\f5\fs18  and an adaptation of }{\i\f5\fs18 A Midsummer Night's Dream}{\f5\fs18 , though he is better known for works set in his own country, like }{\i\f5\fs18 The Medici}{\f5\fs18 
, which was to be the first opera in a trilogy on the Italian Renaissance.
\par \tab Answer: Ruggero }{\f5\fs18\ul Leoncavallo}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Leoncavallo is best known for this verismo opera, which premiered in 1892 and depicts Canio's murder of his wife Nedda.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 I }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Pagliacci}{\f5\fs18  (pah-lee-AH-chee) or }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Clowns}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. In 1897, Leoncavallo had a hit with an opera of this name, but his fortune soured when Puccini's opera on the same story came out the following year.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 La }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Boh\u143\'8fme}{\f5\fs18  (bo-EM)
\par 
\par 16. Identify these Mogul emperors, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This Mogul emperor built the Taj Mahal.
\par \tab Answer: Shah }{\f5\fs18\ul Jahan}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (15 points) This second Mogul emperor was succeeded by his son Akbar in 1556, after he died from a fall in his library.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Humayun}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) The empire rose to its greatest extent under this son of Shah Jahan.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Aurangzeb}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 17. Answer these questions about a cycle, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) Give the proper name of the stage in cellular respiration also known as the Krebs cycle and Citric Acid cycle.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul tricarboxylic acid}{\f5\fs18  cycle
\par 2. (10 points) The cycle begins with this compound which is then combined with oxaloacetate to form citrate.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul acetyl coenzyme A}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) For 15 points, this compound is oxidized to provide the oxaloacetate used again in the final stage of the cycle.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul malate}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul malic acid}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. Identify the following Antarctic explorers for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This Norwegian explored was the first to fly over the North Pole, sail through the Northwest Passage, and first to set foot on the South Pole.
\par \tab Answer: Roald }{\f5\fs18\ul Amundsen}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) He discovered an eponymous sea and ice shelf in Antarctica and was on the expedition of his uncle of the same name that discovered the North Magnetic Pole.
\par \tab Answer: Sir James Clark }{\f5\fs18\ul Ross}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) He claimed 2.5 million square miles for Australia and reached the south magnetic pole with Shackleton in 1909.
\par \tab Answer: Sir Douglas }{\f5\fs18\ul Mawson}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\f5\fs18 19. Identify the following theorists who thought world history and culture passed through identifiabl
e stages for 10 points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 1. He identified five ages of man: Gold, Silver, Bronze, the Heroic, and Iron.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Hesiod}{\f5\fs18 

\par 2. In his 1725 book }{\i\f5\fs18 The New Science}{\f5\fs18 , this Italian postulated that civilization passed from a primitive bestiality to "the age of the gods," "the age of heroes," and "the age of men" before a downfall to begin the cycle over again.

\par \tab Answer: Giambattista }{\f5\fs18\ul Vico}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This French sociologist thought humanity passed through theological, metaphysical, and positive stages.
\par \tab Answer: (Isidore) Auguste (Marie Fran\u141\'8dois Xavier) }{\f5\fs18\ul Comte}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 20. Identify the following female Latin American authors for 10 points each.
\par 1. Despite recent controversy regarding its authenticity, this Nobel prize winner's autobiography is a powerful account of life in Guatemala.
\par \tab Answer: Rigoberto }{\f5\fs18\ul Menchu}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This 1945 Nobel Prize winner, a Chilean poet, was the author of }{\i\f5\fs18 Desolaci\emdash n}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Sonnets of Death}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Gabriela }{\f5\fs18\ul Mistral}{\f5\fs18  
\par 3. }{\i\f5\fs18 Near to the Savage Heart}{\f5\fs18  was this Brazilian's first publication. She later wrote both novels and short story collections like }{\i\f5\fs18 Family Ties}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Foreign Legion}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Clarice }{\f5\fs18\ul Lispector}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Answer these questions about some neurotransmitters, FTP each.
\par 1. This group of neurotransmitters is formed from phenylalanine and tyrosine. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul catecholamine}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 2.
 To make catecholamine neurotransmitters, tyrosine is first transformed into dihydroxyphenylalanine. This allows for the formation of three additional neurotransmitters, including this one, also known as hydroxytyramine and the lack of which leads to Park
inson\rquote s disease.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul dopamine}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. The other two hormones have similar names and structures with one having an extra CH3 group instead of a hydrogen atom. They both act to constrict blood vessels and get the heart pounding.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul epinephrine}{\f5\fs18  and }{\f5\fs18\ul norepinephrine}{\f5\fs18  (or }{\f5\fs18\ul adrenaline}{\f5\fs18  and }{\f5\fs18\ul noradrenaline}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par Identify the Roman poets from the women their love poems are addressed to, for 10 points each.
\par 1. Lesbia
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Catullus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Corinna
\par \tab Answer: Publius }{\f5\fs18\ul Ovid}{\f5\fs18 ius Naso
\par 3. Cynthia
\par \tab Answer: Sextus }{\f5\fs18\ul Propertius}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Identify the elements discovered by Sir Humphry Davy for 10 points each.
\par 1. Davy discovered this by electrolyzing its hydroxide, a method still used today. Its alchemical symbol is a circle with a vertical diameter line through the center.
\par \tab Answer: Sodium
\par 2. Never found free in nature, its nitrates and sulfates are common in fertilizers and explosives. It is the major cation (cat-ion) in intracellular fluids.
\par \tab Answer: Potassium
\par 3. Its name comes from Arabic and Persian words. Its compounds have been known for thousands of years in kernite, tincalconite, and sassolite.
\par \tab Answer: Boron
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }}