{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff12\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York;}{\f194\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f195\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f197\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f198\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f199\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f200\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f201\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f210\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f211\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f213\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f214\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f215\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
endnote text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext16 Word4095Null;}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Heading 11;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Heading 21;}{
\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext19 Default Paragraph Font1;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri187\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin187\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Body Text;}}{\info
{\title Georgia Tech}{\author Ryan Scranton}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo2\dy20\hr4\min15}{\revtim\yr2001\mo2\dy20\hr4\min17}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3934}{\nofchars22424}{\nofcharsws27538}{\vern8247}}
\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Tossups by Georgia Tech
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. American physicist Ralph Kronig first conceived of this property, which is based on the exclusion principle, but was discouraged from publishing it by Pauli.
 Instead that honor went to Dutch physicists George Uhlenbeck and Samuel Goudsmit in 1925, who suggested that this would satisfy the theoretical need for a fourth quantum number. First observed three years earlier in the Stern-Gerlach experiment, this pro
perty was later used to explain both the fine and hyperfine structure in spectral lines. FTP, name this property, the intrinsic angular momentum of a subatomic particle.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ulnone \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18 spin
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par 2. It was built by Azzo Adalbert, but by the 1070s it had come into the 
possession of Countess Matilda of Tuscany. She was the one who invited a German emperor to visit there in an event described by Lambert of Hersfeld, who claimed that he stood outside this castle in the snow for three days before being granted absolution o
n January 28. FTP, identify this castle in northern Italy, where Henry IV was humiliated by Gregory VII, whose name has become a byword for penance.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Canossa}{\f5\fs18 

\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 3. He was born in Prague, and studied at the universities of Berlin, Prague, and Wurzburg,
 where he received his doctorate in 1904. He fled Germany when the Nazis came to power and taught at the New School for Social Research until his death in 1943, but before that he performed experiments, while a professor at Frankfurt and Berlin, which int
r
oduced the new macroscopic approach to studying psychological problems. FTP, name this German psychologist, whose discovery of the phi phenomenon can be seen in Christmas lights everywhere and whose studies, along with those of Kurt Koffka and Wolfgang Ko
hler, paved the way for the Gestalt school. 
\par \tab Answer: Max }{\f5\fs18\ul Wertheimer}{\f5\fs18  (VUR-tie-mer)
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
4. It won an Obie Award for best American play of the 1963-64 season. Set in the summertime, it depicts a conversation between Clay and Lulu, who taunts him for trying to in
tegrate himself into the white world. Eventually, Clay explains that blacks must hide their true antiwhite feelings in order to survive in the white world, but Lulu responds by stabbing Clay and having him thrown off the subway car. FTP, name this one-act
 play by LeRoi Jones, the future Imamu Amiri Baraka, whose title refers to a legendary wandering ship.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ulnone \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 Dutchman}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par 5. The armies met near Glebe Farm and Ambien Hill Farm, about a mile to the west of Sutton Cheney. After Lord Stanley and his uncle wer
e convinced to desert by the Duke of Richmond, the battle was effectively over, and it ended with the deaths of Lord Ferrers, the Duke of Norfolk, and the king. FTP, identify this battle, fought in Yorkshire on August 22, 1485, which ended the Wars of the
 Roses as the future king Henry VII defeated Richard III.
\par \tab Answer: the battle of }{\f5\fs18\ul Bosworth Field\line }{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
6. During the Trojan War, the Greeks brought his bones to Troy because of a prophecy that only by doing so could they conquer the city. The grandson of Zeus and
 son of Tantalus, he was cut up, stewed, and served to the gods. He was saved and re-assembled except for his shoulder, which had been partially eaten by Demeter, and which was replaced with a shoulder of pure ivory. FTP, name this king, whose name was gi
ven to the southern area of Greece containing the cities of Sparta and Olympia.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Pelops}{\f5\fs18 
 (Note: The area of Greece is the Peloponnesus)
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 7. At the end of the novel, the title character\rquote 
s daughter marries Aaron Winthrop, who is happy to allow the title character to live with them. After the opium addict Molly Farren dies in the snow, 16 years pass, and the skeleton of Dunstan Cass is found in a drained pit, along with the title character
\rquote s stolen gold. FTP, identify this 1861 novel, which ends with Godfrey Cass admitting that Eppie is his daughter, the story of a linen-weaver from Raveloe which was written by George Eliot.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ulnone \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 Silas Marner}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 8. This painting is believed to be a celebration of the love of Giuliano de Medici for Simonetta Cattaneo Ves
pucci. In the upper left, Zephyr and Chloris fly through falling roses while in the right sits part of an orange grove, corresponding with the sacred garden of the Hesperides in Greek myth. A nymph just to the right of center holds a robe to the central c
haracter, who, driven by the wind, slowly floats to shore on a large shell. FTP, name this large masterpiece by Sandro Botticelli.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ulnone \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ulnone The }{\i\f5\fs18 Birth of Venus}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 9. The bacteriophage comes in contact with the cel
l, and inserts its viral DNA. This mixes with the native DNA of the host, and the host cell immediately begins transcribing and replicating the viral DNA for use in new viroids. Some 100 to 200 new viruses are created inside the infected cell, and, when f
illed to capacity, the cell explodes, releasing all the newly created viruses. FTP, name this cycle of viral reproduction and alternative to the lysogenic cycle.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul lytic}{\f5\fs18 
 cycle
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 10. His chief opponent was Philip Francis, but he retired after this 
man wounded him in a duel in 1780. After his uncle\rquote 
s death in 1749, he was taken from school and granted a writership, and a year later sailed for the East. On his return to England, he got in trouble for punishing the Zemindar of Benares, forfeiting prope
rty that belonged to the Begums of Oudh, and aiding the Nawab of Oudh against the Rohilla Afghans. FTP, name this man, the first governor general of Bengal, whose impeachment, led by Edmund Burke, lasted for 7 years, and who shares his name with a famous 
battle of the Norman Conquest.
\par \tab Answer: Warren }{\f5\fs18\ul Hastings
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 11. At the premiere of his last ballet, }{\i\f5\fs18 Relache}{\f5\fs18 , the curtain bore a sign stating that \'93
[Blank] is the greatest musician in the world; whoever disagrees with this notion will please leave the hall.\'94 The musicians Sauguet (so-GAY), Desormi\u143\'8fre (daze-orm-YARE) and Milhaud (mee-OH) organized the \'93School of Arcueil\'94
 (ar-COY) in honor of the suburb of Paris where he lived, and his compositions include the }{\i\f5\fs18 Mass of the Poor}{\f5\fs18 , the }{\i\f5\fs18 Bureaucratic Sonatina}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Parade}{\f5\fs18 
. FTP, name this man, upon whose ideas Les Six were founded, and who is best known for such pieces as }{\i\f5\fs18 Dessicated Embryos}{\f5\fs18  and the }{\i\f5\fs18 Gymnop\'8edies}{\f5\fs18  (zheem-no-pay-DEE). 
\par \tab Answer: Erik }{\f5\fs18\ul Satie}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 12. His first play, }{\i\f5\fs18 The Butterfly
\rquote s Evil Spell}{\f5\fs18 , closed after one night in 1920. His other early works include }{\i\f5\fs18 First Songs}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Gypsy Ballads}{\f5\fs18 , and he wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 Poet in New York}{\f5\fs18 
 after moving there following an emotional collapse. FTP, name this poet born near Granada, best known for such plays as }{\i\f5\fs18 Yerma}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Blood Wedding}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The House of Bernarda Alba}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Federico }{\f5\fs18\ul Garc\rquote a Lorca
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 13. This physical phenomenon is widely used in many republics of the former Soviet Union to power radio receivers in remote areas. The discoverer of the effect mistakenly thought that conductors were directly
 magnetized by the difference in temperature, when, in fact, a thermoelectric potential was being generated between the metals. FTP, name this effect behind the thermocouple, first observed in 1821 by its namesake Russo-German physicist and the inverse of
 the Peltier effect.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Seebeck}{\f5\fs18  Effect
\par 
\par 14. According to his biographer, he died of a fever after eating too much cheese. Unlike his predecessor, he rarely left Rome, spending most of his 23 year reign at his at his palace at Lorium, and he was so
 beloved that the Senate voted unanimously to deify him upon his death. The biggest project of his rule was the establishment of a turf wall across Scotland, north of the stone wall of his predecessor. FTP, name this Roman emperor, the successor to Hadria
n and the predecessor of Marcus Aurelius.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Antoninus}{\f5\fs18  Pius 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par 15. The suicide of his friend Jacques Vache had a lasting impact on his work. The author of such novels as }{\i\f5\fs18 The Communicating Vessels}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Mad Love}{\f5\fs18 , he co-founded the Federation of Independen
t Revolutionary Art in 1938 with Leon Trotsky. FTP, identify this author of }{\i\f5\fs18 The Key to the Fields}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Nadja}{\f5\fs18 , who also wrote 1924\rquote s }{\i\f5\fs18 Manifesto of Surrealism}{\f5\fs18 .
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Andr\'8e }{\f5\fs18\ul Breton}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx180\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
16. During this process, the main polymer takes the forms of 3-Phosphoglycerate, 1,3-Bisphosphoglycerate, G3P, and ribulose bisphosphate. Its three sections are the carbon fixation reactions, the regeneration reactions, and the regeneration of RuBP reacti
ons. The input is carbon dioxide, and the output is glucose, which is converted elsewhere to create the ATP needed for the plant. FTP, name this cycle of photosynthesis, commonly called the "Dark Reactions."
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Calvin}{\f5\fs18 
 cycle 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 17. Educated at the U
niversity of Moscow, he entered the horseguard in 1755, and he was made a count after his role in the Russo-Turkish War. Made the commander in chief and governor general of \'93New Russia,\'94
 he developed the arsenal at Kherson and the harbor of Sevastopol, but
 became infamous when, for an imperial visit in 1787, he supposedly constructed artificial villages along the Dnieper River with his men serving as the adoring crowd. FTP, name this general, a favorite of Catherine II, who developed the Russian fleet, and
 whose name was immortalized in a 1905 mutiny in Odessa.
\par \tab Answer: Gregory }{\f5\fs18\ul Potemkin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. Its state amphibian is the spotted newt, while landmarks include Strawberry Banke, the Flume gorge, and the Isles of Shoals. The birthplace of Salmon P. Chase and Mary B
aker Eddy, it also contains Lakes Ossipee, Francis, and Winnipesaukee. FTP, name this state, the home of Mount Washington, Franklin Pierce, and Concord. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul New Hampshire}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. He was thrown out of Oxford after challenging a student who criticized his
 mustache to a duel. After serving as a subaltern in the Bombay Native Infantry, he learned Gujarati and Marathi before travelling in 1853, in disguise, to the forbidden cities of Mecca and Medina. He searched for the source of the Nile along with his par
tner, John Speke, although there is some controversy over who should be given credit for the discovery of Lake Tanganyika. FTP, name this man, perhaps best remembered today for his translations of the }{\i\f5\fs18 Kama Sutra}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 
The Arabian Nights}{\f5\fs18  into English. 
\par \tab Answer: Sir Richard Francis }{\f5\fs18\ul Burton}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par 20. His father, Melville, proclaimed before his birth in 1918 that, \'93if it\rquote s a boy, he\rquote s going to be a scientist.\'94  Studying under John Wheeler at Princeton, he used the principle of least action to develop the path integral 
formulation for quantum mechanics and Oppenheimer described him as \'93the most brilliant young physicist\'94 at Los Alamos. FTP, identify this man whose 1947 papers \'93The Theory of Positrons\'94 and \'93Space-Time Approach to Quantum Electrodynamics
\'94 set the stage for the work which gained him a share the Nobel Prize in 1965. 
\par \tab Answer: Richard }{\f5\fs18\ul Feynman}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
OT1. Anthracite coal is first used in iron smelting in Pennsylvania. Iowa and Missouri clash in the \'93Honey War.\'94 }{\i\f5\fs18 Two Years Before the Mast}{\f5\fs18  is published. Mormons leave th
e barren fields of Missouri for the greener pastures of Nauvoo, Illinois. After a year and a half of skirmishes, Gen. Winfield Scott\rquote 
s deployment to the area of dispute ends the Aroostook War. Henry Clay, trying to distance himself from growing anti-slavery faction within the Whig Party, tells the nation that he would rather be right than President. FTP, identify the common year.

\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul 1839
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par OT2. Born in Wisconsin in 1919, this man earned two Emmys, six gold albums, and two stars in the Hollywood Walk of
 Fame. Ignacy Paderewski visited his family while he was young and recommended he study at the Wisconsin College of Music. He made his film debut in }{\i\f5\fs18 South Sea Sinner}{\f5\fs18 
, and starred in a television series which debuted in 1952. FTP, name this showy pianist, who died in 1987, and who dropped his first and middle names, Wladziu Valentino, in favor of using simply his last name. 
\par \tab Answer: (Wladziu Valentino) }{\f5\fs18\ul Liberace}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 OT3. Easily reco
gnized by a red dot in the middle of their forehead, they are normal human beings until they reach the age of thirty, at which time they become dejected. Upon reaching the age of eighty they become legally dead, and suffer from many ailments including the
 loss of eyesight and the loss of hair. FTP, identify these miserable immortals encountered on his third voyage by Lemuel Gulliver.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Struldbrug}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par After the Civil War, this reformer devoted himself to such causes as temperance, women\rquote s rights, and th
e Greenback Party, and in 1870 was an unsuccessful Massachusetts gubernatorial candidate for the Labor and Prohibition Parties. Influential in the popularization of an important Ante-bellum cause, this man was recognized as one of the era\rquote 
s great orators a
fter delivering a spontaneous speech at Faneuil Hall in protest of the mob action responsible for the death of Elijah Lovejoy. FTP, name this radical abolitionist, a disciple of Garrison, who became the president of the American Anti-Slavery Society after
 Garrison.
\par \tab Answer: Wendell }{\f5\fs18\ul Phillips
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par There was a time when he kissed the now dusty toy dog and the now rusted soldier. He dreamt of the little toys, but the litte toys were true. FTP, these toys wondered what happened to what Eugene Field character who used to sit in a now dusty chair.

\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ulnone \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18 Little Boy Blue
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \page }{\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Boni by Georgia Tech
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Name the sculptors for the stated number of points.\line 1. (5 points) He produced a sixty-foot high }{\i\f5\fs18 Statue of the Republic}{\f5\fs18  for the 1893 World's Fair, but is best known for a statue of a sitting Abraham Lincoln.\line \tab 
Answer: Daniel Chester }{\f5\fs18\ul French\line }{\f5\fs18 2. (10 points) Born in Philadelphia, this son of another sculptor is known for his wire portraits, his miniature zoo, and such works as }{\i\f5\fs18 Lobster Tail and Fish Trap}{\f5\fs18 .\line 
\tab Answer: Alexander }{\f5\fs18\ul Calder\line }{\f5\fs18 
3. (15 points) He worked in the studio of J.H. Foley, and was later knighted in 1911. He sculpted a bust of Longfellow which sits in Westminster Abbey, the Queen Victoria Memorial outside Buckingham palace, and the equestrian statue of the
 Black Prince in the Leeds City Square.\line \tab Answer: Sir Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Brock
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 2. Identify these poems from lines on a 15-10 basis. If you need the name of the author, you\rquote ll only get 5 points.

\par 1. (15 points) \'93In all my dreams, before my helpless sight, / He plunges at me, guttering, choking, drowning\'94
\par (10 points) \'93Gas! GAS! Quick, boys! -- An ecstasy of fumbling, / Fitting the clumsy helmets just in time\'94
\par (5 points) The title of this Wilfred Owen poem comes from an ode by Horace.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Dulce et Decorum Est}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (15 points) \'93Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight / Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay\'94
\par (10 points) \'93And you, my father, there on the sad height, / Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray\'94
\par (5 points) This Dylan Thomas villanelle shares its name with its first line, while its other repeated line is \'93Rage, rage against the dying of the light.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
3. Identify the following unrelated things from European history FTP each.
\par 1. A victory for Napoleon over the Austrian in June 1800, this battle in the War of the First Coalition was the first in a series of victories by the French that led to the end of the war.
\par \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f5\fs18\ul Marengo}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Formed in 1795 by Protestants in the county Armagh to work for the continuation of British rule and Protestant supremacy in Ireland, this group was named for King William III, who destroyed the political power of Irish Roman Catholics.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Orangemen}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul Orange}{\f5\fs18  Order)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri187\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin187\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 3. This took pla
ce on August 23 and 24, 1572, after the marriage of Henry of Bourbon to Margaret of Valois.  Admiral Coligny was the most prominent victim.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Massacre of }{\f5\fs18\ul Saint Bartholomew}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul Saint Bartholomew Day}{\f5\fs18 
's Massacre, as well as other equivalents)}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. (Note: Read slowly) Given the DNA string C-T-G-C-A-G, answer the following questions FTP each.
\par 1. First, give its corresponding DNA strain.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul G-A-C-G-T-C}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Now, give its corresponding RNA strain.\tab 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul G-A-C-G-U-C
\par }{\f5\fs18 3. Because the bases in this string and its compliment are exactly oppositely ordered, this string could serve as this type of recognition sequence.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Restriction}{\f5\fs18  Site/Segment/Sequence
\par 
\par 5. Answer these questions about a jazz musician, FTP each.
\par 1. His early cool bebop was replaced in the late \lquote 50s with more exotic sounds, as heard on }{\i\f5\fs18 Sorcerer}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Nefertiti}{\f5\fs18 . After taking time off due to a drug problem, he returned with 1981\rquote s }{
\i\f5\fs18 The Man with the Horn}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Miles }{\f5\fs18\ul Davis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Miles Davis\rquote s best album might be this 1959 effort, which features \'93So What,\'94 \'93Freddie Freeloader,\'94 and \'93Flamenco Sketches.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Kind of Blue}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This man, whose own albums include }{\i\f5\fs18 A Love Supreme}{\f5\fs18 , was the tenor saxophonist on }{\i\f5\fs18 Kind of Blue}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Coltrane}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
6. Given a description of a body of water, name it FTP each.\line 1. This arm of the Pacific Ocean is west of the Kamchatka peninsula and is connected with the Sea of Japan by the Tatar and La Perouse straits.\line \tab Answer: Sea of }{\f5\fs18\ul 
Okhotsk\line }{\f5\fs18 2. Located east of the Bay of Bengal, this sea lies between the Malay Peninsula, the Nicobar islands, and its eponymous islands.\line \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Andaman}{\f5\fs18  Sea\line 
3. The third largest lake in Africa, its main tributary is the Ruhuhu River and it is bordered by Tanzania, Mozambique, and Malawi.\line \tab Answer: Lake }{\f5\fs18\ul Nyasa}{\f5\fs18  (accept Lake }{\f5\fs18\ul Malawi}{\f5\fs18 )
\par }{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 7. Identify the following from Civil War history for 10 points each.
\par 1. On June 19, 1864 a crowd of French spectators saw Rafael Semmes and 40 other survivors get rescued by an English yacht after this ship, on which they were fighting, was destroyed.
\par \tab Answer: the CSS }{\f5\fs18\ul Alabama
\par }{\f5\fs18 2. This was the two-engine sloop that destroyed the Alabama.
\par \tab Answer: the USS }{\f5\fs18\ul Kearsarge}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. He was the captain of the Kearsarge.
\par \tab Answer: John A. }{\f5\fs18\ul Winslow}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following captains from books by Herman Melville FTP apiece.
\par 1. The captain of the Neversink in }{\i\f5\fs18 White-Jacket}{\f5\fs18 , he rules capriciously, allowing the men many liberties while punishing crewmembers unjustly.
\par \tab Answer: Captain }{\f5\fs18\ul Claret}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. The captain of the Bellipotent in }{\i\f5\fs18 Billy Budd}{\f5\fs18 , his nickname comes from a Marvell poem.
\par \tab Answer: Captain Edward Fairfax (Starry) }{\f5\fs18\ul Vere}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. In one of the }{\i\f5\fs18 Piazza Tales}{\f5\fs18 , he is the captain of the San Dominick and is involved on a slave revolt onboard.
\par \tab Answer: Captain Benito }{\f5\fs18\ul Cereno}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 9. Identify the following about Hubble\rquote s Law for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points): In the standard statement of the Hubble relation, this quantity is given by the ratio of redshift and the Hubble Constant.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul distance}{\f5\fs18  (accept equivalents)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 2. (10 points) Although its fir
st accepted form was as an empirical law, the Hubble relation can be derived from these equations, named after a Russian mathematician who developed the metric which described the expansion of a matter-dominated universe independent of Lemaitre in 1922.

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18  \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Friedman}{\f5\fs18  equations 
\par 3. (15 points) For nearby galaxies outside the Local Group, the Hubble redshift for a given galaxy is dominated by this intrinsic velocity due to the local gravitational field.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul peculiar}{\f5\fs18  velocity
\par }{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri187\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin187\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 10. Identify the following from nineteenth-century German history FTP each.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri180\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin180\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
1. These punitive measures, proposed by Metternich in 1819, provided for uniform press censorship, abolition of liberal student organizations, state supervision of universities, and a federal commission to investigate subversive activities.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri187\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin187\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Carlsbad}{\f5\fs18  Decrees
\par 2. This is the name applied to the conflict between the Roman Catholic church and the German Empire between 1871 and 1883, and had its beginnings in 1870 when the First 
Vatican Council moved to strengthen the power of the pope by promulgating the dogma of papal infallibility. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Kulturkampf
\par }\pard\plain \s21\ql \li0\ri187\widctlpar\faauto\rin187\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
3. Prussia and Austria invaded Denmark in 1864 to seize control of these two duchies, which were surrendered along with Lauenburg at the Peace of Vienna.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri187\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin187\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Schleswig-Holstein}
{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par 11. Name the film director given details about him for ten points, or five if you need films he directed.\line 1. (10 points) He was born in Iron Mountain, Michigan and spent his childhood in mining towns
. He loved the outdoors and explored some of the islands in Hudson Bay.\line (5 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 Elephant Boy}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18 Nanook of the North}{\f5\fs18 \line \tab Answer: Robert Joseph }{\f5\fs18\ul Flaherty\line }{\f5\fs18 
2. (10 points) Born Friedrich Plumpe, he is noted for films with fluid use of the camera to mirror states of mind.\line (5 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 The Last Laugh}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18 Nosferatu}{\f5\fs18 \line \tab Answer: Friedrich W. }{\f5\fs18\ul 
Murnau\line }{\f5\fs18 3. (10 points) Born in Austria, he came to the U.S. in 1909 and appeared as an actor in Griffith's }{\i\f5\fs18 Birth of a Nation}{\f5\fs18 .
\par (5 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 Blind Husband}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18 Greed}{\f5\fs18 \line \tab Answer: Erich Von }{\f5\fs18\ul Stroheim\line }{\f5\fs18 
\par 12. Given a description of an electrical apparatus, name it FTP each.\line 
1. This instrument, the basis of most other electrical measuring devices, is usually used to find the characteristics of an electric current in a conductor. Modern types are typically of the \'93movable coil\'94 type and are named for Arsene d'Arsonval.
\line \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Galvanometer\line }{\f5\fs18 2. Usually based on the galvanometer, these instruments are usually analog and are used to measure the magnitude of an electric current.\line \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ammeter\line }{\f5\fs18 
3. Consisting of primary and secondary coils, these devices, coming in step-up and step-down varieties, are used in the transportation of electrical power over long distances.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Transformer}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 13. Identify the author from works, 30-20-10.
\par 1. }{\i\f5\fs18 The Walnut Trees of Altenburg}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The Temptation of the West}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. }{\i\f5\fs18 The Conquerors}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Days of Wrath}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. }{\i\f5\fs18 Man\rquote s Fate}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Man\rquote s Hope}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Andr\'8e }{\f5\fs18\ul Malraux}{\f5\fs18  (mal-RO)}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 14. Answer these questions on the economic analysis of law, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (10 points) This judge who was appointed special mediator in the Microsoft antitrust case is generally considered to be one of the fathers of the field with his text }{\i\f5\fs18 The Economic Analysis of Law}{\f5\fs18 . 
\par \tab Answer: Richard }{\f5\fs18\ul Posner}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (5 points) Give the legal name for a negative externality imposed by one party on another.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul nuisance}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) This rule, coined by a U. S. judge, states that it is the duty of the owner of a piece of property to protect against an injury to the property of others if the 
probability of the the injury (P) times the cost of the injury (L) is more than the burden or cost of preventing such an injury (B), or more succinctly if B<PL.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Learned }{\f5\fs18\ul Hand}{\f5\fs18  rule}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 15. Identify the following scientists on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. (10 points) Born in 1908 in Madison, Wisconsin, he began working for the University of Illinois in 1951 where he would help develop a theoretical understanding of a phenomenon first discovered forty years earlier.
\par (5 points) For his work with Leon Cooper and John Schrieffer, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1972.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Bardeen}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) He directed the Cavendish Laboratory for 5 years following Maxwell\rquote s death in 1879. While there, he completed Maxwell\rquote s work on the standardization of the volt, ampere and ohm. 
\par (5 points) Born John Strutt, he worked closely with William Ramsey on the discovery of argon and won the Nobel Prize in 1904.
\par \tab Answer: Lord }{\f5\fs18\ul Rayleigh}{\f5\fs18  (accept John William }{\f5\fs18\ul Strutt}{\f5\fs18  on the 10 point clue)
\par 3. (10 points) The son of an impoverished bookseller, he collaborated with Fizeau on the tooth-wheeled experiment which was the first to measure the speed of light terrestrially.
\par (5 points) A gifted experimentalist, in 1852, he performed his most famous experiment using a large Roman structure and the rotation of the Earth.
\par \tab Answer: Leon }{\f5\fs18\ul Foucault
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 16. Identify the following nineteenth-century Americans for 10 points each.
\par 1. Secretary of the navy and minister to Great Britain in the Polk administration, he is more famous for his 10 volume}{\i\f5\fs18  History of the United States}{\f5\fs18 
, the first detailed historical account of America from the founding of the colonies to the end of the American Revolution.
\par \tab Answer: George }{\f5\fs18\ul Bancroft}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. A lawyer from a wealthy family, he led a violent rebellion in Rhode Island in 1842, protesting the state law that gave the vote only to property owners.
\par \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Dorr}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6020\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
3. The first important American woman astronomer, she discovered a comet in 1847 which bears her name, and she was the first woman elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Maria }{\f5\fs18\ul Mitchell}{\f5\fs18 
\par \line 17. Name the substance given its chemical formula FTP each, or FFP if you need another clue.\line 1. (10 points) C}{\f5\fs18\dn4 10}{\f5\fs18 H}{\f5\fs18\dn4 8}{\f5\fs18  (C ten H 8)\line 
(5 points) It is used in the preparation of dyes, and it is used in insecticides and moth repellents.\line \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Naphthalene\line }{\f5\fs18 2. (10 points) C}{\f5\fs18\dn4 9}{\f5\fs18 H}{\f5\fs18\dn4 8}{\f5\fs18 O}{\f5\fs18\dn4 4}{
\f5\fs18  (C nine H eight O four)\line (5 points) It is used to relieve headaches and muscle pain, and is the active ingredient in aspirin.\line \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Acetylsalicylic }{\f5\fs18 Acid \line 3. (10 points) C}{\f5\fs18\dn4 3}{\f5\fs18 H}
{\f5\fs18\dn4 5}{\f5\fs18 N}{\f5\fs18\dn4 3}{\f5\fs18 O}{\f5\fs18\dn4 9}{\f5\fs18  (C three H five N three O nine)\line (5 points) It is used in medicine to relieve symptoms of angina pectoris.\line \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Nitroglycerin\line }{
\f5\fs18 
\par 18. Identify the following from US legislative history for 10 points each.
\par 1. Passed one month prior to midterm elections of 1890, this tariff was intended to appeal to farmers and placed sugar on the free list.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul McKinley}{\f5\fs18  Tariff
\par 2. Demand for civil service reform increased dramatically after the death of President Garfield, and in 1883 Congress passed this act which allowed for open selection of government employees.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Pendleton}{\f5\fs18  Civil Service Act
\par 3. This 1940 act made it a criminal offense to advocate the violent overthrow of the government, and was formally known as the Alien Registration Act.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Smith}{\f5\fs18  Act
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 19. Given a queen from Greek myth, name her kingdom for ten points each:
\par 1. Circe\tab \tab \tab         
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Aeaea}{\f5\fs18  (Eye-eye-uh)
\par 2. Calypso\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ogygia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Penthesilea\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Kingdom of the }{\f5\fs18\ul Amazon}{
\f5\fs18 s}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 20. Identify the following members of Faulkner\rquote s Compson family FTP each.
\par 1. Upset about the selling of pasture to pay for Caddy Compson\rquote s wedding, he is often found clinging to a fence, as in the start of }{\i\f5\fs18 The Sound and the Fury}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Benjy}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Benjamin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. A Harvard student, he committed suicide after Caddy had married disastrously because of a pregnancy.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Quentin}{\f5\fs18  (III)
\par 3. The daughter of Caddy, she was \'93fatherless nine months before her birth and already doomed to be unwed from the instant the dividing egg determined its sex.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Quentin}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par Answer these related questions about a certain psychologist FTP each.\line 1. When a response to a particular stimulus leads to a positive consequence, the
 response is more likely to be repeated. When a response leads to a negative consequence, the responce is less likely to be repeated. Give the name of this psychological law.\line \tab Answer: Law of }{\f5\fs18\ul Effect}{\f5\fs18  \line 
2. What Massachusetts born psychologist first stated the law of effect?\line \tab Answer: Edward Lee }{\f5\fs18\ul Throndike\line }{\f5\fs18 
3. The law of effect was part of Thorndike's theory of learning. Name this theory, which states that learning is the result of forming associations between stimuli and reponses.\line \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Connectionism}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 Identify the Longfellow works from quotations for five points apiece.
\par a. This is the forest primeval.
\par b. If I am not worth the wooing, I surely am not worth the winning.
\par c. Tell me not, in mournful numbers, Life is but an empty dream!
\par d. Skoal! to the Northland! skoal! Thus the tale ended.
\par e. But the father answered never a word, A frozen corpse was he.
\par f. All you strength is in your union. All your danfer is in discord.
\par 
\par Answer:
\par a. }{\f5\fs18\ul Evangeline}{\f5\fs18 
\par b. }{\f5\fs18\ul The Courtship of Miles Standish
\par }{\f5\fs18 c. }{\f5\fs18\ul A Psalm of Life}{\f5\fs18 
\par d. }{\f5\fs18\ul The Skeleton in Armor}{\f5\fs18 
\par e. }{\f5\fs18\ul The Wreck of the Hesperus}{\f5\fs18 
\par f. }{\f5\fs18\ul The Song of Hiawatha}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par }}