{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s255\sb240\sa60 \b\f2001\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 1;}{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sa120 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}{
\s2\fi-360\li360 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 List;}}{\info{\title Questions by George Washington and Illinois B}{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain 
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
Tosssups by George Washington and Illinois B\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. He was executed in Fort Bliss for trying to foment a rebellion in Mexico. This general was an admirer of Porfirio D\'92
az, but was flexible enough to be chief of staff of the army under D\'92az\rquote 
s successor. He joined forces with a group of rebels led by fellow army officers in a coup that ousted Madero, which gained him the enmity of the Wilson administration. FTP, identify this man, who only served for ten days as president of Mexico before bein
g forced from office in the summer of 1914 in favor of Venustiano Carranza.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Victoriano }{\f21\fs18\ul Huerta}{\f21\fs18  (WEAR-tah)\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. After being denounced by Tigellinus, he was arrested at Cumae and committed suicide. Earlier, he had served as governor of Bithynia and as
 consul before becoming arbiter of elegance to emperor Nero, who he may have depicted as Trimalchio in his most famous work. FTP, identify this Roman author, best known for a novel about Encolpius's picaresque adventures, the }{\i\f21\fs18 Satyricon}{
\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Gaius }{\f21\fs18\ul Petronius}{\f21\fs18  Arbiter\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
3. His two periods of prophecy were markedly different. The early period consisted mostly of angry pronouncements that Judah would fall to Babylon due to the apostasy of the Jews of Palestine. After about 13 years of silence, his later proph
ecies talked of the promise of the future, and especially of the restoration of the Temple in Jerusalem. Supposedly given to trances, strange visions, and bizarre symbolic actions, he was said to have eaten a scroll on which a prophecy was written. FTP, id
entify this prophet, known for his faith in a new covenant between God and the Israelites as well being quoted in the 1994 film }{\i\f21\fs18 Pulp Fiction}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ezekiel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 4. In electrodynamics, this quantity is given by the cross product of a magnetic dipole with th
e external magnetic field. In classical mechanics, it can be expressed as the cross product of an object\rquote 
s angular velocity of precession and angular momentum but is more commonly given as the lever arm crossed with an applied force. FTP, identify this quantity, the time derivative of angular momentum and the twisting equivalent of force.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul torque}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 5. His early works employed a "tubular" style derivative of L\'8eger (lay-ZHAY), though the influence of Futurism on his work can be seen in paintings like }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Knife Grinder}{\f21\fs18 
. He gave up painting around 1919 in favor of making three-dimensional models, and taught Lissitzky at Vitebsk before moving to Leningrad, where he died in 1935. FTP, name this Russian painter, who wanted to "free art from the burden of the object," which 
he did in works like }{\i\f21\fs18 White on White}{\f21\fs18 , the father of Suprematism.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Kasimir }{\f21\fs18\ul Malevich}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 6. They might have reached their destination, if they hadn't stopped to rest in the Bear Paw Mountains. Their journey began after an incident on the 
Salmon River left several prospectors dead, and they crossed the Missouri River into northern Montana before being set upon by Nelson Miles. FTP, identify this Native American tribe, which tried to flee to Canada in 1877 before being stopped, and which was
 led by a man who vowed to fight no more forever, Chief Joseph.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Nez Perc\'8e}{\f21\fs18  (nez purse or nay pur-SAY)}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 7. Based on the novel by Charles Portis, it chronicled 14 year old Mattie Ross's search for her father's killer in the wasteland of Oklahoma. Aided by bounty-hungry Tex
as Ranger La Boeuf, played by Glen Campbell, and a "one-eyed fat" federal marshal, Ross hunts down Tom Chaney and his cronies Moon and Ned Pepper, who were played by Dennis Hopper and Robert Duvall respectively. FTP, what was this movie for which, by speak
ing lines such as "Fill your hand, you son of a bitch" as Rooster Cogburn, John Wayne won the 1969 Best Actor Academy Award?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul True Grit\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. This equation, based upon work that barely secured a doctoral degree five years earlier, was first proposed 
in 1889. It describes the requirements for the spontaneous starting of a reaction by relating the natural logarithm of the reaction rate constant to the ratio of the activation energy and thermal energy. FTP, name this equation central to studies of combus
tion, first proposed its namesake Swedish chemist?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Arrhenius}{\f21\fs18  equation\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
9. His first big hit was written in 1909 in support of E. H. Crump's mayoral campaign. After leading Mahara's Minstrels, he taught at Huntsville's Agricultural and Mechanical College before forming his own orchestra, with whom he had hits like }{
\i\f21\fs18 Yellow Dog}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Beale Street}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Joe Turner}{\f21\fs18 
. FTP, name this American composer, whose most famous songs are named for the cities of Saint Louis and Memphis, best known as the "father of the blues."\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: William Christopher }{\f21\fs18\ul Handy\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
10. The preface to the first edition suggests that it was found in a library in northern England, first printed in 1529, written in the purest Italian. A prince seeks to make the fiancee of his dead son his own whi
le trapping his own wife in a dungeon, but the whole thing is foiled as a peasant, who turns out to be a descendant of a former lord of the castle, leads the young Isabella though underground passages. The prince, Manfred, ends up doing penance in a monast
ery. FTP, identify this 1765 work, considered by many the first Gothic novel, written by Horace Walpole. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Castle of Otranto}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 11. He divided his empire into 36 ch\'9fn, or provinces, and constantly exchanged governors to ensure no base of support 
for a possible coup. His chief advisor was Li Ssu, and he ordered a massive burning of books three years before his death. He built many roads, and several canals, one of particular note. FTP name this monarch, the first member of the Ch'in dynasty, who di
ed in 210 BCE and was born with the name of Cheng, but later changed it when he became the self-proclaimed "First Emperor" of all China.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Shih}{\f21\fs18  Huang-Ti\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. Aiobhill is associated with the Dalcassians of North Munster and Cliodna is linked to the M
acCarthys of South Munster. In the 12th century, Norman leader Richard of Clare encountered one washing a bloody robe on a riverbank who warned of his army's destruction. Referred to in Irish folklore as Bean Sidhe, the woman of the hills, they are known f
or their keening. FTP, what are these supernatural females in Celtic myth whose wails presage death?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Banshee}{\f21\fs18 s (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Bean Sidhe}{\f21\fs18  before it is mentioned)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 13. The fires that occur there during the late summer serves to clear away dense ground cover
 and to stimulate germination in certain shrub seeds. It is similar to the Mediterranean climate but only receives 20 to 30 inches of rain per year. Characterized by hot, dry summers and mild, wet winters, its broad-leaved evergreen shrubs, bushes, and sho
rt trees form a dense thicket. FTP, what is this scrubland biome found primarily in the Southwestern North America?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chaparral}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. It ends when Mehemet's xebec is blown fifty feet in the air by a waterspout somewhere in the Mediterranean. It inclu
des the Confessions of Fausto Maijstral; Kurt Mondaugen's story, which tells of his two and a half months at Foppl's Siege Party; and a ballet in which M\'8e
lanie, as Su Feng, is spectacularly impaled when she forgets to put on her chastity belt. FTP, identif
y this novel, winner of the Faulkner Prize for the best first novel of 1963, which also includes Herbert Stencil and Benny Profane, a work of Thomas Pynchon.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul V.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 15. His reign got off to a good start with the victory at Marj al-Saffar. Other victo
ries under his rule included Yarmuk, which did away with the Byzantine threat; Qadisiya, where the Persians under Rusam were defeated; and Nehavend, where the last vestige of Sassanid power was destroyed. FTP, name this man, who was assassinated by a slave
 in 644, ten years after he assumed the title of Amir al-Mu'munin, or Prince of the Faithful, as the successor to Abu Bakr as caliph.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Umar}{\f21\fs18  ibn al-Khattab or }{\f21\fs18\ul Omar}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 16. Orphaned before he turned five, his siblings sent him to St. George's hospital,
 where he trained under John Hunter before returning, at the age of 23, to Gloucestershire. One of the first doctors to associate angina with artheriosclerosis, he won his greatest award, induction into the Royal Society, for correctly describing the nesti
ng habits of cuckoos. FTP, name the English doctor, who, fascinated with the folklore that milkmaids rarely caught smallpox, invented the first vaccination.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Edward }{\f21\fs18\ul Jenner\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 17. His 1938 doctoral dissertation on }{\i\f21\fs18 Science, Technology and Society in Seventeenth Century England}{\f21\fs18 
 proved influential in its prosopographic analysis of scientific communities. He began teaching at Columbia in 1941, where he was co-director with Lazarsfeld of the Bureau of Applied Social Research, and his major work included studies of reference groups,
 role theory, and deviance from a functionalist perspective. FTP, identify this American sociologist, whose best known works include }{\i\f21\fs18 Sociological Ambivalence}{\f21\fs18  and 1951's landmark }{\i\f21\fs18 Social Theory and Social Structure}{
\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Robert King }{\f21\fs18\ul Merton\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
18. The Shebele and Jubba Rivers drain this nation's southeastern plains. In the north central highlands lie Lake Tana, and Tisisat Falls. Many of Africa's highest mountains line in this nation, the tallest being Mt. Talo. FTP name this nation which some c
laim is the resting place of the Ark of the Covenant, a nation that endured great famine in the 80's and has recently lost the region of Eritrea, with its capital and largest city being Addis Abeba.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ethiopia\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 19. He was the first European ever to see Ethiopia\rquote 
s Ogaden region, and was well liked by the natives. His father translated the Koran into French, and his own literary career began at 15 when he wrote Th\'8eodore de Banville to announce that he would be a Parnassian. A master of the prose poem, 
he established his reputation in works such as \ldblquote The Spiritual Hunt,\rdblquote  \ldblquote A Season in Hell,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Drunken Boat.\rdblquote 
 FTP, identify this leader of the French symbloists, perhaps best remembered for his long relationship with another poet, Paul Verlaine. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f21\fs18\ul Rimbaud}{\f21\fs18  (ram-BO)}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
20. At this battle the confederates managed to cut off Union supplies and the Northern line of retreat, but in so doing the Rebs allowed the union army to get between them and their base. The battle was also the only fight of the war to see a large Native 
American force fight for the South. The first Rebel assault was beaten off by a union general named Jefferson C. Davis, and Southern General Earl Van Dorn's second assault was driven back down the telegraph road. FTP name this enga
gement fought on March 7 and 8, 1862 in northern Arkansas, a key victory for Union general Samuel Curtis.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pea Ridge}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Elkhorn Tavern}{\f21\fs18 )}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
1. He seems to have forgiven his former team for supposedly failing to mail his contract on time to his New Hampshire home; either that or his falling out with the team he subsequently played 13 seasons for influenced his decision about what hat to wear on
 his plaque. His only Gold Glove was in his rookie season of 1972, but he does hold the all time record f
or putouts and games played at his position. His lifetime 376 home runs are also tops behind the plate. FTP, name this 2000 Hall of Fame inductee, remembered for trying to wave a home run fair in the 1975 World Series for the Boston Red Sox. \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Carlton }{\f21\fs18\ul Fisk}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
2. On account of his lawless and outrageous behavior, this deity was driven out of heaven and away from his sister's court. While wondering in the land of Izumo he killed Koshi, an eight-headed dragon. He fashioned the sword Kusanagi from its ta
il, but it was later taken from him by his son Okuni-nushi. FTP, who is this Shinto deity of winds, storms and the sea, the son of Izanagi and younger brother of Amaterasu?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Susanoo}{\f21\fs18  No Mikoto or }{\f21\fs18\ul Susanowo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
3. First discovered in rocks in the United States by Harris and Hopkins, and then independently in Italy by Rolla and Fernando, this radioactive metal was synthesized in 1941. It was only positively identified in 1945 at Oak Ridge by Marinsky, and even tod
ay, its 18-year lifespan makes it rare enough that it is, for the most part, used for small batteries. For 10 points, identify this lanthanide, named for the titan who stole fire.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul prometheum}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by GW and Illinois B\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Identify the following related to the development of special relativity for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) Einstein\rquote s first application of special relativity was in the generalization of these equations to describe electromagnetic fields in inertial frames.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Maxwell}{\f21\fs18 \rquote s Equations\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Perhaps the first person to ever directly observe a special relativistic effect, this British astronomer\rquote s attempts to measure parallax in 1725 were confounded by the aberration of starlight due to the Earth\rquote 
s motion although it did allow him to improve on Roemer\rquote s value for the speed of light.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Reverend James }{\f21\fs18\ul Bradley}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This 1932 experiment used an interferometer with arms of different lengths which was fixed in the laboratory and observed over the course of several months. The lack of interference fringes confirm
ed the invalidity of the contraction hypothesis.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kennedy-Thorndike}{\f21\fs18  experiment\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Name the following British people for 5 points each, with a bonus 5 for all parts correct.\par 
1. }{\f21\fs18 Name the}{\f21\fs18  English king whose mother aided a plot in which his father was killed with a hot iron applied to the bowels.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Edward III}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Name Edward III's sons who never ruled, but who had kings as their direct descendants.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Edward}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Black Prince}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul John}{\f21\fs18  of }{\f21\fs18\ul Gaunt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Finally, name the 2 kings fathered by Edward the Black Prince and John of Gaunt.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Richard II}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Henry IV}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Identify these prose works from Heian Japan, for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (10 points) This diary tells what court life in eleventh century Japan was like for lady Sei Shonagon.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Pillow Book}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Makura No Soshi}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) This story by Murasaki Shikibu of a hero prince is related in terms of the succession of women he loves.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tale of Genji}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Genji Monogatari}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This 935 work is the account of Ki Tsurayuki's homeward journey from the title province, where he was governor.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tosa Nikki}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tosa Diary}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Identify these works of architect Frank O. Gehry FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This European branch of a New York museum opened in 1997 and is structurally characterized by curving titanium and limestone facades.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Guggenheim}{\f21\fs18  Museum Bilbao\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. "They told me not to build another brick lump," said Gehry about this four-story, stainless-steel clad art museum at the University of Minnesota.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Frederick R. }{\f21\fs18\ul Weisman}{\f21\fs18  Art Museum\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Currently under construction is this MIT complex that will house the Laboratory for Computer Science and the Artificial Intelligence Lab.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Ray and Maria }{\f21\fs18\ul Stata}{\f21\fs18  Center\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5. Identify the following concerning linear algebra for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) This term is given to a vector which, when multiplied by a matrix, gives the same matrix multiplied by a scalar.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul eigenvector}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points each) These two quantities are given by the sum and product of a matrix\rquote s eigenvalues, respectively.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul trace}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul determinant}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) The eigenvalues for a matrix can be determined by finding the roots of this equation, given by subtracting a diagonal matrix and taking the determinant of the resulting matrix.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul characteristic}{\f21\fs18  polynomial\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 6. Given an example of French grand opera, name its composer FTP each. \par 
}\pard \fi-360\li405 {\f21\fs18 1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Robert the Devil}{\f21\fs18  \tab \tab \tab  \par 
}\pard \li45\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Giacomo }{\f21\fs18\ul Meyerbeer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \fi-360\li405 {\f21\fs18 2. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Jewess}{\f21\fs18 \tab \tab \par 
}\pard \li45\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jacques-Fran\'8dois-Fromental }{\f21\fs18\ul Hal\'8evy}{\f21\fs18  (ah-lay-VEE)\par 
}\pard \fi-360\li405 {\f21\fs18 3. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Trojans}{\f21\fs18 \tab \tab \tab \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Hector }{\f21\fs18\ul Berlioz}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx0\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 7. Identify these famed sultans of the Ottoman Empire, FTP each. \par 
}\pard \tx0 {\f21\fs18 1. Sultan from 1481 to 1512, he followed Mehmed II, worked to calm civil unrest and encouraged Jews fleeing Spain to settle in Ottoman lands. \par 
}\pard \tx0\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18                   }{\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bayezid II}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx0 {\f21\fs18 
2. This successor to Bayezid II, ruling from 1512 to 1520, was far less peaceful. He was known for his victories over the Mamelukes in Syria and the Safavids in Iran. He had all of his brothers and four of his five sons assassinated. \par 
}\pard \tx0\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18      }{\f21\fs18              }{\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Selim I}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx0 {\f21\fs18 3. The one son Selim didn\rquote t assassinate, he ruled from 1520 to 1566 and brought the Ottoman Empire to its territorial apex, but his 1529 siege of Vienna proved unsuccessful. \par 
}\pard \tx0 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Suleyman I}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Suleyman the Magnificent}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 8. Economics isn\rquote 
t only for right-wingers and Mike Zarren, you know. Given an economist revered by someone other than arch-conservatives, identify him for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 points) Perhaps the best known of all the post-Keynesians, this Canadian born economist wrote such influential works about macroeconomics as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Affluent Society}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John Kenneth }{\f21\fs18\ul Galbraith}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) This Nobel winner and author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The American Business Creed}{\f21\fs18  conceived of the idea of an eponymous \ldblquote tax
\rdblquote  on currency exchanges that would take away some of the incentives to engage in currency speculation. His ideas have become more popular in the wake of the Asian financial crises. \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Alfred }{\f21\fs18\ul Tobin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) This 1998 Nobel laureate witnessed the 1943 Bengal famine as a child, and this experience i
nspired his later studies of poverty and welfare such as }{\i\f21\fs18 Collective Choice and Social Welfare}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Amartya }{\f21\fs18\ul Sen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 9. Answer these questions about the various misadventures of Napoleon III, FTP each. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
1. He convinced himself he was a military genius and master of diplomacy because he led a combined French-Piedmontese force to victory over the Austrians at this June 24, 1859 battle. The butchery was so bad that it gave rise to the idea of the Red Cross. 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Solferino}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Though he had just about every veneral disease imaginable, he nonetheless led the French forces into this battle, a decisive Franco-Prussian War disaster. This may have been a suicide attempt in disguise. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sedan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Napoleon III\rquote s most famous stupid idea was the installation of this Austrian prince on the throne of Mexico, and then abandoning him when he found out that, yes, the United States really did mind. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Maximillian}{\f21\fs18  I of Austria\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 10. Identify the}{\f21\fs18 se}{\f21\fs18  Ernest Hemingway stories about Nick Adams FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. It's not a novel by Turgenev, but in this story Nick recalls how he received his first gun and how he hunted black squirrels as a teenager with Ojibway Indians Billy and Trudy.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Fathers and Sons}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. After being tied up at gunpoint in the kitchen of Henry's lunchroom, Nick runs to warn Ole Anderson that two hitmen are after him.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Killers}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. A disoriented Nick visits an Italian battalion commanded by Captain Paravicini. Although his mission is to raise troop moral, Nick wears a faux American uniform an
d lacks the requisite gifts of chocolate and cigarettes, and he ultimately departs for Fornaci before he can appear on the line.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Way You'll Never Be}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11. Identify these Greeks who hid in the Trojan Horse FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. One of the Atreides, this king of Sparta desired the return of his abducted wife, Helen.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Menelaus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This highly skilled carpenter designed and built the Horse for the Greeks.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Epeus}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Epeos}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Referred to by Virgil as "the guide", this member of the Epigonoi was a co-leader of the Argosean army with Diomedes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sthenelus}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 12. Answer the following about what we expect from the Higgs boson for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) Interaction with a Higgs boson changes this property of a particle.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mass}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) The Higgs boson falls into this class of bosons, one of which exists for every field force.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gauge}{\f21\fs18  bosons\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) The photon carries electromagnetic force and the graviton carries gravitational force. Five points for on
e, 10 points for three, and 15 points for all four, name the four gauge bosons responsible for carrying the strong and weak forces.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answers: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gluon}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul W+}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul W-}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Z0\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 13. Given the Elizabethan or Jacobean revenge tragedy, name the playwright who wrote it, for the stated number of points. \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Antonio\rquote s Revenge}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Marston}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Duchess of Malfi}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Webster}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Broken Heart}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Ford}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. Given some islands name the chain they are in FTP each.\par 
1. Bougainville and New Georgia\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Solomon}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
2. Bora Bora and Tahiti     \par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Society}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
3. Enewetak and Bikini\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Marshall}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\sa120 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\f21\fs18 15. Name the following key figures of the early days of the Soviet Union FTP each.\par 
1. He constructed the Red Army during the Russian Civil War only to be done in by an icepick to the brain.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Leon }{\f21\fs18\ul Trotsky}{\f21\fs18  or Lev Davidovitch }{\f21\fs18\ul Bronstein}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. This general led Russian troops to Petrog
rad to in August to overthrow the government of Aleksandr Kerensky, but was killed in war with the Cossacks in April, 1918.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Lavr Georgiyevich }{\f21\fs18\ul Kornilov}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. He was the only Pole among the early leaders, creaking the Cheka, the secret police force that became the KGB.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\sa120 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Feliks }{\f21\fs18\ul Dherzhinsky}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 16. Identify the following observational relations from astronomy, for the stated number of points. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) His law states that the area of an ellipse swept out by an orbiting body in a given amount of time will be constant for any part of the orbit.\tab \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kepler\rquote s}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Third}{\f21\fs18  Law \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) His law correctly gives the mean orbital distances from the Sun for the interior planets in terms of the astronomical unit, but fails for the planets beyond Saturn.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bode}{\f21\fs18 \rquote s Law\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) Used to correct Type Ia supernovae so that they may be used as standard candles, this correlates the luminosity of the supernova and the time it takes to reach peak brightness.  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Phillips}{\f21\fs18 \rquote  Relation \par 
\par 
17. Answer these questions about an American philosopher FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
1. What philosopher argued that a boundary between analytic and synthetic statements does not exist in his 1951 article "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" but is better known to mathematicians for his work on set theory in "New Foundations of Mathematical Logic"?
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Willard Van Orman }{\f21\fs18\ul Quine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. In this 1960 work, Quine sets out the views that translation between languages is indeterminate on the basis of observable evidence and that the observable behavi
or of speakers is all that grounds attribution of meaning to their expressions.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Word and Object}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Quine claimed that the only legimate role of the study of knowledge was to describe the way knowledge is actually obtained. What term did he use for the type of philosophy which followed from this claim?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Naturalized Epistemology\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. Identify these hills of Rome FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Named for a shepherd god, this hill was Romulus' choice for the first Roman settlement.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Palatine}{\f21\fs18  or Mons }{\f21\fs18\ul Palatinus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Among the many temples situated on this hill were the Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus and the Temple of Juno Moneta.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Capitoline}{\f21\fs18  or Mons }{\f21\fs18\ul Capitolinus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Named after a local war god, this northernmost hill of Rome provided a common appellation for the people of Rome.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Quirinal}{\f21\fs18  or Mons }{\f21\fs18\ul Quirinalis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\sa120 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 19. Identify the works of Gabriel Garcia Marquez FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This novel chronicles the sucessive generations of the Buendia family and the Colombian town of Macondo.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul One Hundred Years of Solitude}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Cien A\'96os de Soledad}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. In this novel, as Simon Bolivar journeys down a river from Bogota toward the sea, the Liberator recollects his life in the context of the history he created.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul General in his Labyrinth}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 El }{\i\f21\fs18\ul General en su Laberinto}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Set in Macondo in the aftermath of the pull out of the banana industry, this novella centers around the relationship between the honorable Colonel and much-hated Doctor.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Leaf Storm}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 La }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hojarasca}{\f21\fs18  \tab \par 
\par 
20. Identify these terms from crystal theory FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In three dimensions, there are 14 of these infinite arrays of discrete points with an arrangement and orientation that appears exactly the same from whichever of the points the array is viewed.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bravais}{\f21\fs18  Lattices \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This type of primative cell is the region around a lattice point which is closer to that point than to any other lattice point.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wigner-Seitz}{\f21\fs18  primitive cell\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. The Fourier transform of a primitive cell from real space into momentum space produces this type of cell.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul reciprocal}{\f21\fs18  lattice primitive cell\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 And now, for that ever-popular history of Antarctica bonus. FTP each name these persons or places associated with Antarctica. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
1. Perhaps most famous because of a Bass Ale commercial on the radio, this British explorer made four major Antarctic expeditions, counting the disastrous Endurance expedition where his crew was marooned in ice floes for nearly two years. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Sir Ernest Henry }{\f21\fs18\ul Shackleton}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. First set up in 1928 by Richard Byrd for his Antarctic expedition, this principal American base in Antarctica lies on the northeast fringe of the Ross Ice Shelf. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Little America}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Supposedly the coldest place on earth, colder than even Lambeau Field, is this Russian research station, located deep in Antarctica, founded in 1957 and continuously occupied until 1994. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vostok}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 Given the date and some information name the following church councils, FTP each.\par 
1. 325: in response to Arius bishop of Alexandria, and called by Constantine the Great.     \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Nicaea I}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. 451: in response to the Monophysites.     \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chalcedon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. 787: condemned the iconoclasts, called by empress Irene. }{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab }{\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Nicaea II}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}