{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s255 \f2010 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 1;}{\f2010 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f2010\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext1 Word4095Null;}{\s2 \f2010 
\sbasedon0\snext2 Body Text;}{\s3 \f2010 \sbasedon0\snext3 Body Text 2;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain 
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f2010 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\b\f21\fs18 Questions by Illinois A (Subash)\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s3 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 1. In this novel the narrator\rquote s insecurity is evident when he explains to Georgette the reason why he cannot have sex with her. Secondary characters include the wise Count Mippipopolous and the strong-wi
lled American woman, Frances Clyne. The narrator is in love with the central female of the novel, who has a brief affair with young Romero. Set during one week in Pamplona, other characters include the writer Bill Gorton, a friend of the narrator, and anot
her writer, Robert Cohn. Michael Campbell is the drunken fianc\'8e of Lady Brett Ashley in this story told by Jake Barnes. FTP, identify this novel by Ernest Hemingway.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sun Also Rises}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. We first meet this character when he sings the aria \ldblquote Dunque io son,\rdblquote  (doon-kay ee-oh sohn) 
telling of his poor cousin named Lindoro. In a later section he sings of how nothing is more stimulating in the world than gold and proceeds to use his guile to arrange the marriage of Rosina. In another opera he pretends to be Cherubino, as part of a plan
 he hatches because he cannot repay Marcellina, who turns out to be his mother. Eventually this valet of Count Almaviva is united with his beloved Susanna. FTP, identify this character, a former barber, whose wedding is the subject of a Mozart opera.
\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Figaro}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. This man suppressed a revolt led by Gaetulicus and Aemilius Lepidus, his sister\rquote 
s widower. The previous year he had ordered the execution of Naevius Macro, prefect of the Praetorian Guard. Four months after returning to Rome from Gaul he would be assass
inated, along with his wife Caesonia, at the Palatine Games. He had received his moniker, meaning Little Boot, from the soldiers of his father, Germanicus. FTP, identify this Roman emperor who supposedly made his horse a consul, the su
ccessor to Tiberius, who would be succeeded by his uncle, Claudius.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Caligula}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on \ldblquote Gaius Caesar Germanicus\rdblquote )\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
4. Peter Mitchell first enunciated its mechanism of action in 1961. All the clusters involved are non-heme proteins and are Iron-Sulfur conglomerations. All four transitions possess a negative delta G in this series of reactions that were the centerpiece o
f Mitchell\rquote s chemiosmotic theory. The b-c2 complex follows ubiquinone in this pathway that also utilizes NADH dehydrogenase and several cytochromes. The final step results in the production of two water molecules, FTP, in }{\f21\fs18 this}{
\f21\fs18  pathway that follows the Krebs cycle in aerobic metabolism and releases energy for ATP formation.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul electron transport}{\f21\fs18  chain (prompt on "oxidative phosphorylation\rdblquote ) \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 5. This author described his childhood education at the \ldblquote Bluecoat School\rdblquote  in his essay }{\i\f21\fs18 Christ\rquote 
s Hospital Five-and-Thirty Years Ago}{\f21\fs18 . He criticized his own play }{\i\f21\fs18 Mr H}{\f21\fs18 . when it was performed at Drury Lane, and was also dissatisfied with his Elizabethan tragedy, }{\i\f21\fs18 John Woodvil}{\f21\fs18 . }{
\i\f21\fs18 Rosamund Gray}{\f21\fs18 
 is the best known novel of this author, who often ended up drunk under the table after an evening with his friends Wordsworth and Coleridge. Meanwhile, his sister, Mary, stabbed their mother in the heart and wounded their father as well. FTP, identify thi
s man best known for his }{\i\f21\fs18 Essays of Elia}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Tales from Shakespeare}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Charles }{\f21\fs18\ul Lamb}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 6. Inhabited primarily by the Khoikhoi and San peoples, this area possesses remarkable mud flats that are caused by the pooli
ng of water from heavy rains. The whole region is marked by vertical-walled hills known as kopjes, and the Black Nossob River transverses its. The Makgadikgadi [muk ga dee ga dee] Plains lie in its north, and the Okavango and the Boteti Rivers cross this r
egion, which occupies most of Botswana. FTP, identify this desert, the largest in southwestern Africa.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kalahari}{\f21\fs18  Desert\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 7. After John Neville had his house surrounded, his men killed Oliver Miller, touching off this incident. The next day saw the s
hooting death of John McFarlane, which when coupled with a lack of cooperation from Governor Thomas Mifflin, resulted in a national crisis. It temporarily interrupted the political career of \ldblquote Light-Horse\rdblquote 
 Harry Lee, who was given the military command and ordered to end it. The primary cause of the incident was Alexander Hamilton\rquote 
s excise tax passed into law three years earlier. Quashed by George Washington, FTP, identify this 1794 revolt in western Pennsylvania caused by dissatisfaction with a certain liquor tax.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Whiskey}{\f21\fs18  Rebellion\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s3 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 
8. Though discovered by William Lassell in 1846, little was known of it until August 25, 1989, when Voyager 2 flew within 24,000 miles of it. It revolves so slowly that each of its seasons lasts 40 years, and its unique landscape was created by a phenomeno
n termed \ldblquote icy volcanism.\rdblquote  The seventh of eight satellites of its parent planet, it is the only one that is regularly shaped and the largest as well. In addition, it is the largest solar system satellite that moves in a ret
rograde orbit. FTP, identify this largest moon of Neptune.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Triton}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 9. This man\rquote s first published book, }{\i\f21\fs18 German Social Democracy}{\f21\fs18 
, was initially dedicated to his longtime mentor, the metaphysician J.M.E. McTaggart. His versatile career included the book }{\i\f21\fs18 Is Modern Marriage a Failure}{\f21\fs18 ?, inspired by his four failed marriages, and his famous \ldblquote Man
\rquote s Peril\rdblquote  radio broadcast, condemning the Bikini Atoll H-bomb tests. His philosophical system of logical atomism permeated the books }{\i\f21\fs18 The Analysis of Matter}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Analysis of Mind}{\f21\fs18 
. Winner of the Nobel Prize in literature in 1950, FTP, identify this logician and philosopher best known for a collaboration, }{\i\f21\fs18 Principia Mathematica}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Bertrand }{\f21\fs18\ul Russell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 10. This author\rquote s former teacher, Pierre Nicole, once accused him of having no more redeemable virtues than a \ldblquote public poisoner.
\rdblquote  Ironically this author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Litigants }{\f21\fs18 and}{\i\f21\fs18  The Thebiad}{\f21\fs18  would later be charged with poisoning his mistress, the Marquise du Parc. He was urged by Madame de Maintenon to write his final two pl
ays, }{\i\f21\fs18 Esther}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Athalie}{\f21\fs18 , which do not reflect the Hellenistic leanings that mark his early subject matter. FTP, identify this contemporary of Corneille best known for his tragedies }{\i\f21\fs18 
Andromache}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Phaedra}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Jean }{\f21\fs18\ul Racine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 
11. The main points of attack were designed to be through Kum Kale and Suvla Bay, though operations would stall at both sites. Otto Liman von Sanders trained and commanded the troops that repulsed it. It led to the resignation of Admiral Lord Fisher and th
e recall of Sir Ian Hamilton who had been in command for half of it. During it, several divisions of the ANZAC corps were butchered, and the withdrawal, on January 9, 1916, was the only successful part of the operation. FTP, name
 this failed World War I campaign, an Allied operation against Turkey.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gallipoli}{\f21\fs18  Campaign or }{\f21\fs18\ul Dardanelles}{\f21\fs18  Campaign\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 12. When Manet first saw the works of this painter, he painted the canvas }{\i\f21\fs18 Le Bon Bock}{\f21\fs18 
 and dedicated it to this man. The most successful student of Karel van Mander, his gypsy girl, }{\i\f21\fs18 La Boh\'8emienne}{\f21\fs18 , is considered his first masterpiece. His broad brushwork and }{\i\f21\fs18 alla prima}{\f21\fs18 
 are easily seen in such group works as }{\i\f21\fs18 Regents of the Old Men\rquote s Alms House}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Banquet of the Officers of the St. George Militia Company}{\f21\fs18 
. FTP, identify this Northern artist best known for the jovial spirit of such portraits as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Jolly Toper}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Laughing Cavalier}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Frans }{\f21\fs18\ul Hals}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 13. Shin Inouye (IN-oo-ay) was involved in the observation of the first Feshbach resonance and super radiance within it. The Gross
-Pitaevskii equation is used to analyze those substances capable of its formation, which occurs when de Broglie wavelengths of the involved atoms begin to overlap. Wieman, Cornell, and Ketterle first experimentally verified this shared quantum state that o
ccurs when bosons making up a substance merge into the lowest energy level. FTP, identify this \ldblquote fifth\rdblquote  state matter, named for the two scientists who proposed it in 1925.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bose-Einstein}{\f21\fs18  condensate\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 14. Beginning her writing career as a reporter in Wisconsin, this author\rquote 
s early books introduced the traveling petticoat saleswoman, Emma McChesney. Her autobiographical works include }{\i\f21\fs18 A Peculiar Treasure}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Kind of Magic}{\f21\fs18 
, and she collaborated with George S. Kaufman on the plays }{\i\f21\fs18 Dinner at Eight}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Stage Door}{\f21\fs18 
. One of her works told the story of Selina and Dirk Dejong and won the Pulitzer Prize. She was primarily known for her treatment of the Midwest in such novels as }{\i\f21\fs18 Cimarron}{\f21\fs18 
. FTP, identify this American author, best-known for the novels }{\i\f21\fs18 So Big}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Show Boat}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Edna }{\f21\fs18\ul Ferber}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
15. Of the four known accounts of it, the one of the chronicler Fulcher of Chartres is believed to be the most accurate. During this parley, King Phillip of France was excommunicated for adultery, and Bishop Adhemar of Le Puy was chosen as a papal legate a
t its conclusion. The famous exclamation of }{\i\f21\fs18 Deus vult}{\f21\fs18 , or \ldblquote God wills it\rdblquote 
 was first introduced there as well. Its primary decision was the result of a request for envoys by the Byzantine emperor Alexius I Comnenus. Called by Urba
n II in 1095, FTP, identify this church council that became the occasion for initiating the First Crusade.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Council of }{\f21\fs18\ul Clermont}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
16. His namesake paradox, which resulted from a study of the Hecksher-Ohlin theory, states that, in the U.S., capital rather than labor is the relatively scarce factor of production. After serving as an advisor on railroad construction to the Chinese gover
nment, he emigrated to the U.S. in 1931. While at Harvard, he was credited with the development of linear programming i
n economics, a vital tool in his system. The core of that system is a grid like table showing what individual industries buy from and sell to one another. FTP, identify this formulator of input-output analysis, the Russian winner of the 1973 Nobel Prize in
 economics.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Wassily }{\f21\fs18\ul Leontief}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
17. Leonard Euler discovered that this curve, the evolute of a tractrix, forms the only minimal surface of revolution when it is revolved about its asymptote. It can be defined as the locus of the mid-point of the vertical line segment between the curves 
\ldblquote e to the x\rdblquote  and \ldblquote e to the negative x.\rdblquote  With the general equation of \ldblquote }{\i\f21\fs18 y}{\f21\fs18  equals }{\i\f21\fs18 a}{\f21\fs18  times the hyperbolic cosine of the quantity }{\i\f21\fs18 x}{\f21\fs18 
 over }{\i\f21\fs18 a}{\f21\fs18 ,\rdblquote  this curve can be generated as the locus of the focus of a parabola rolling along a straight line. FTP, identify this shape that is formed by a chain suspended by its endpoints and only acted on by gravity.
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul catenary}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 18. Sarah Tansey, Susan Brady, and Honor Blake are three village girls with speaking roles in this play that tak
es place on two successive Autumn days. As Act 1 opens we meet fat Shawn Keough, a young farmer and cousin to Widow Quin. Shawn is talking with Pegeen Mike, a young girl who at various times flirts with the protagonist. That protagonist mistakenly believes
 that he killed his father with a blow to the head. Set in County Mayo and centering on Christy Mahon, FTP, identify this play by John Millington Synge.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Playboy of the Western World}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 19. Before his death, this man drew a cross of his own blood on the ground, kissed it, and cried \ldblquote Jesus\rdblquote 
 as he fell. After traveling to Hispaniola, he had enrolled in the service of the explorer Alonso de Ojeda (oh-HAY-da). Three years later he participated in Balboa\rquote 
s expedition to the Pacific and served as governor of Panama for five years. His most famous exploits were conducted with Diego de Almagro, his future betrayer. It was at the town of Cajamarca (ca-ha-MAR-ca) 
in November of 1530 that this man revealed his own treachery by surprising the guards of Atahualpa. Considered the founder of Lima, FTP, identify this Spanish conquistador and conqueror of the Inca Empire of Peru.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Francisco }{\f21\fs18\ul Pizarro}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
20. Like the thymus, this gland is larger in children and begins to shrink with the onset of puberty. It can be easily seen on X-rays due to small deposits of calcium that it receives, and it can be alternately referred to as the epiphysis cerebri. In lowe
r vertebrates it functions as a light receptor and is believed to be the predecessor to the human eye. Its primary endocrine function in humans is the secretion of melatonin. FTP, identify this tiny gland, which derives its name from its pine-cone shape.
\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pineal}{\f21\fs18  gland\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s3 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
1. Richard Morris Hunt suggested that this man take up a job with Furness and Hewitt, with whom he worked until joined the atelier of Emile Vaudremer. His ideal design, the Fraternity Temple was never built, and his first major design was the Schlesinger &
 Mayer store, the first of the Carson Pirie Scott & Company buildings. A lifelong collaboration with Dankmar Adler 
resulted in such designs as the famous Guaranty Building in Buffalo. FTP, identify this mentor to Frank Lloyd Wright, best known for his Wainwright Building.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Louis }{\f21\fs18\ul Sullivan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
2. The author based this story on a tale told to him by the clergyman H.L. Connolly. He gained the inspiration for it from the 1755 event known as }{\i\f21\fs18 Le Grande Derangement}{\f21\fs18 
. The title heroine and her lover dwell near the lakes of Atchafalaya [aa cha fa lye aa] in the towns of St. Maur and St. Martin. After Ms. Bellefontaine is take
n to New England, she learns that her lover went to the Ozarks. Working as a nurse in Philadelphia she finally meets up again with a dying Gabriel Lajeunesse. FTP, identify this story about the titular Acadian woman, a narrative poem by Henry Longfellow.
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Evangeline}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. The name\rquote 
s the same. One was the younger son of Pandion and uncle of Theseus, who tried to usurp the throne of Athens from Aegeus before Theseus killed him. Another was the Titan son of Crius and Eurybia and married Styx. That union
 gave rise to his children, Zelus, Cratos, Bia, Nike, and possibly Eos. The third was a daughter of Triton, who was killed while playing with a goddess. The fourth was a giant and the father of that same goddess, who was killed when he tried to violate her
. She took his skin and made it into a shield, the Aegis. FTP, identify this figure whose name often precedes that of Athena.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pallas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Its namesake publicly enunciated it two months after he heard a lecture by Francois Arago reporting the work of another scientist. Maxwell\rquote 
s resolution of a dilemma within it resulted in his formulation of displacement current. It can be formally stated as
 the line integral of the magnetic field around an arbitrarily chosen path is proportional to the net electric current enclosed by the path. It is an alternate expre
ssion of the more general Biot-Savart law. FTP, identify this relationship named for its French discoverer. \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Amp}{\f21\fs18\ul \'8f}{\f21\fs18\ul re\rquote s}{\f21\fs18  Law\par 
 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 One of this piece\rquote 
s quirks is that audiences often forget etiquette and applaud after its third movement, a powerful march. The mood is set by an introduction in a dark register of the bassoon with a drone bass and sighing strings. The second movement, in 
uneven 5/4 time, might not be as memorable as the brass chorale interruption in the first movement, which features a melody from the Russian Requiem. It was named by the composer\rquote 
s brother as a reference to a sonata of the same name by Beethoven. FTP, identify this symphony of Pyotr Tchaikovsky.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Path\'8etique}{\f21\fs18  Symphony or }{\f21\fs18\ul Tchaikovsky\rquote s Symphony No. 6}{\f21\fs18  (accept just \ldblquote 
Symphony No. 6\rdblquote  after Tc}{\f21\fs18 haikovsky\rquote s name has been given}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Illinois A\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 1. Given a third party candidate and the year, identify the party that he ran under for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard\plain \s255 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 1. (15 points) George Wallace, 1968\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul American Independent}{\f21\fs18  Party\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Strom Thurmond, 1948\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Dixiecrats}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul States\rquote  Rights}{\f21\fs18  Party\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. (5 points) Teddy Roosevelt, 1912\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Progressive}{\f21\fs18  Party or }{\f21\fs18\ul Bull Moose}{\f21\fs18  Party\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Identify these scientific things from descriptions FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 1. This principle states that the temperature of a gas falls when it expands without expending energy.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Joule-Thomson}{\f21\fs18  effect\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 2. This law states that the amount of heat produced each second in a conductor by a current of electricity is proportional to the resistance of the conductor and to the square of the current. \par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Joule\rquote s}{\f21\fs18  Law\par 
}\pard\plain \s255 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 3. This physical unit is equal to 1 watt-second or 10 million ergs.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul joule\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. Given a description, identify the women involved with the following authors for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
1. (10 points) First believed to have been seen in the St. Claire Church in Avignon in 1327, this woman is believed to have more than 300 sonnets written to her. She is most famously the subject of the }{\i\f21\fs18 Canzoniere}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Laura}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) It was theorized that this woman was actually Maria d\rquote Aquino, daughter of King Robert of Na
ples. We do know that she dominates Boccaccio\rquote s literary activity up to the }{\i\f21\fs18 Decameron}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fiammetta}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. (5 points) Much of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Divine Comedy}{\f21\fs18  is dedicated to this woman, who guides Dante through }{\i\f21\fs18 Paradiso}{\f21\fs18 
.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Beatrice}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
4. Identify these German artists from descriptions FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 1. This man\rquote s most famous portrait might be }{\i\f21\fs18 Edward VI as a Child}{\f21\fs18 
, which was painted during his time as court painter to Henry VIII of England.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Hans }{\f21\fs18\ul Holbein}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Younger}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. This painter of }{\i\f21\fs18 Nymph of the Spring}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Crucifixion with the Converted Centurion}{\f21\fs18 
 also painted some portraits of his good friend Martin Luther.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Lucas }{\f21\fs18\ul Cranach}{\f21\fs18  the Elder\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. Probably the only well-known German romantic painter, this man is best known for his controversial oil landscape }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Cross in the Mountains}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Caspar David }{\f21\fs18\ul Friedrich}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 5. Identify these 17}{\f21\fs18\up6 th}{\f21\fs18  century European treaties from descriptions for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) 1648 saw this treaty that brought an end to the Thirty Years War.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Peace of }{\f21\fs18\ul Westphalia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) The signing of this treaty in 1697 ended King William\rquote s War.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Peace of }{\f21\fs18\ul Ryswick}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This 1659 agreement established a solid boundary between France and Spain and promised Philip IV\rquote 
s daughter, Marie Therese, to Louis XIV of France.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Peace of the }{\f21\fs18\ul Pyrenees}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 6. Identify the female American authors from short stories FTP each or better-known works for 5 points.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) \ldblquote Desiree\rquote s Baby\rdblquote  \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Awakening}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Kate }{\f21\fs18\ul Chopin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) \ldblquote The Gilded Six-Bits\rdblquote \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Their Eyes Were Watching God}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Zora Neale }{\f21\fs18\ul Hurston}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) \ldblquote Maria Concepci\'97n\rdblquote \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Ship of Fools}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Katherine Anne }{\f21\fs18\ul Porter}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 7. Answer the following about a functional group in organic chemistry for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This group is characterized by a carbon chain bonded to a hydroxyl group. The simplest one is methanol.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul alcohol}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) With formula C-6-H-5-OH, this compound is an alcoholic benzene derivative.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul phenol}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on \ldblquote hydroxybenzene\rdblquote )\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) Through this reaction, alcohols combine with acids, with the help of acid catalysis, to produce an ester and water.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fischer}{\f21\fs18  esterification\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
8. Answer the following about the }{\i\f21\fs18 Ramayana}{\f21\fs18  FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 1. The devotion of piety of this wife of Rama is one of the central themes of the epic.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sita}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. Sita is kidnapped by this 10-headed demon, whose kingdom was the island of Sri Lanka.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ravana}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 3. Much of the action begins after Rama is exiled for 14 years, so that this virtuous brother of his could inherit the throne. \par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bharatha\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 9. Identify the following insurgents in Russian history FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
1. Taking advantage of the confusing interregnum following the death of Alexander I, the leaders of this rebellion refused to swear fealty to Czar Nicholas I. It was named for the month in 1825 in which it took place.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Decembrist}{\f21\fs18  Uprising \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. The leader of this Cossack rebellion from 1773 to 1775 claimed to be Emperor Peter III.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pugachev}{\f21\fs18 \rquote s Rebellion\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. Organized in 1879 by members of the \ldblquote Land and Freedom\rdblquote 
 Populist party, this terrorist organization assassinated Alexander II in 1881.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Narodnaya Volya}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul People\rquote s Will}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul People\rquote s Freedom}{
\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 10. Given some characters, identify the Henry James novels for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) Morris Townsend, Catherine Sloper\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Washington Square}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) Gilbert Osmond, Isabel Archer\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Portrait of a Lady}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) Rowland Mallet, Christina Light\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Roderick Hudson}{\f21\fs18  (Christina also appears in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Princess Casamassima}{\f21\fs18 
, but do not accept it as an answer)\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
11. Identify these French composers for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This man is best known for his opera }{\i\f21\fs18 Carmen}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Georges }{\f21\fs18\ul Bizet}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) This man\rquote s opera }{\i\f21\fs18 Samson et Dalila}{\f21\fs18 
 was extremely controversial, and his other famous works include the symphonic poem }{\i\f21\fs18 Omphale\rquote s Spinning Wheel}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Camille }{\f21\fs18\ul Saint-Saens}{\f21\fs18  (san SAHNZ)\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This man studied piano with Saint-Saens. His works include a }{\i\f21\fs18 Ballade}{\f21\fs18  for piano and orchestra, a }{\i\f21\fs18 
Berceuse}{\f21\fs18  for violin and piano, and the }{\i\f21\fs18 Elegie}{\f21\fs18  for cello and piano.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Gabriel }{\f21\fs18\ul Faur\'8e}{\f21\fs18  (for-AY)\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
12. Answer the following about the stomach FTP each.\par 
1. The stomach contains two of these types of muscles, the pyloric and cardiac, at its two ends.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul sphincter}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 2. This thick semi fluid mass of partially digested food and digestive secretions is formed in the stomach.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chyme}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 3. This is the name for the upper third portion of the stomach. It is specifically the area curving up above the cardiac opening.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul fundus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
13. Given a concept or theory, identify the psychologist who coined said concept or theory FTP each.\par 
1. hierarchy of needs\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Abraham }{\f21\fs18\ul Maslow}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. zone of proximal development\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Lev }{\f21\fs18\ul Vygotsky}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. client-centered therapy\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Carl }{\f21\fs18\ul Rogers}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s3 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 14. Answer the following about the geography of California for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This highest peak in California is also the highest peak in the 48 contiguous U.S. states.\par 
\tab Answer: Mount }{\f21\fs18\ul Whitney}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (15 points) Redwood National Park and Sequoia are just two of the state\rquote s four national parks. Name one of the other two for 5 points, or name both for 15.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Yosemite}{\f21\fs18  National Park and }{\f21\fs18\ul Kings Canyon}{\f21\fs18  National Park\par 
3. (10 points) This lake in the desert in southern California was formerly a salt-covered sink depression. When diversion controls on the Colorado River broke in 1905, water filled the depression, creating this 300-square-mile body of water.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Salton}{\f21\fs18  Sea\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 15. Given the description of an epic poem, identify that work and the author.
  In each part, you'll receive 5 points if you can only name one, and fifteen if you can name both.\par 
1. Supposedly finished in 1010 AD, this work is a history of the Persian people from the creation of man to the end of the Sassanian empire.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sha-nameh}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Book of Kings}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Firdousi}{
\f21\fs18  or Abu }{\f21\fs18\ul Mansur}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2.  Completed in 1572, this work describes Vasco da Gama\rquote s discovery of the sea route to India.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 Os }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lusiad}{\i\f21\fs18 as}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lusiads}{\f21\fs18  and Luis de 
}{\f21\fs18\ul Camoens}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
16. Answer the following relating to a class of subatomic particles for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (10 points) These are any of the subatomic particles that are built from quarks and thus react through the agency of the strong force. All of them, except for protons and neutrons bound in nuclei, have short lives.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul hadrons\par 
}{\f21\fs18 2. (5 points each) Hadrons are split into two groups, based upon the number of quarks contained by particles in the group. Name the two groups for five points each.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul baryons}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul mesons}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. (10 points) Though some hadrons typically exist only between a tenth and a hundred nanoseconds, stationary particle detectors can record the tracks they leave due to this relativistic effect.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul time dilation}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. Answer the following about a certain book of the Bible for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This woman with the help of her cousin Mordecai prevented the massacre of the Jews. Celebrated during Purim, she was chosen to be the queen of the Persian king Ahasuerus.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Esther}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) Esther interfered with the plans of this courtier of Ahasuerus. This man would be hanged on the gallows he had prepared for Mordecai.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Haman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) Ahasuerus chose Esther as queen after he had repudiated this previous wife of his.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vashti}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. Given a Revolutionary War battle, identify the opposing commanders for 5 points each. \par 
1. Battle of Germantown\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: William }{\f21\fs18\ul Howe}{\f21\fs18  and George }{\f21\fs18\ul Washington}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. Battle of Saratoga\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Burgoyne}{\f21\fs18  and Horatio }{\f21\fs18\ul Gates}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s255 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 3. Battle of Virginia Capes\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Thomas }{\f21\fs18\ul Graves}{\f21\fs18  and Comte de }{\f21\fs18\ul Grasse\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 19. Identify these works of F. Scott Fitzgerald for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This novel, narrated by Nick Carraway, features such snobs as Tom and Daisy Buchanan.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Great Gatsby}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Fitzgerald's second novel, it depicts Anthony Patch's marriage to Gloria Gilbert.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Beautiful and Damned}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s3 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) It is the story of Charlie Wales, an American businessman in Paris. All of his friends suffered in the crash of 1929, and he is trying to regain his daughter Honoria.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \f2010 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Babylon Revisited}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 \par 
20. Answer the following about the formation of the Confederacy FTP each.\par 
1. On February 4, 1861, delegates from the first seven secessionist states met at this city and organized a provisional government.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Montgomery}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. The delegates at the Montgomery Conference elected this Georgian vice-president to serve alongside Jefferson Davis.\par 
\tab Answer: Alexander H. }{\f21\fs18\ul Stephens}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. After the war opened with the attack on Ft. Sumter, four more states joined the Confederacy. Tennessee and Virginia were two of them. Name either of the other two, for a final ten points.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Arkansas}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul North Carolina}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Given a hormone, identify the gland that secretes it FTP each.\par 
1. Oxytocin\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul posterior pituitary}{\f21\fs18  gland (prompt on \ldblquote pituitary\rdblquote )\par 
2. T-4 or thyroxine\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul thyroid}{\f21\fs18  gland\par 
3. Calcitonin\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul thyroid}{\f21\fs18  gland\par 
\par 
Answer the following about a certain African empire FTP each.\par 
1. Ruling from the 7}{\f21\fs18\up6 th}{\f21\fs18  to 11}{\f21\fs18\up6 th}{\f21\fs18  centuries, this west African empire\rquote s most notable capital was at Kumbi Saleh.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ghana}{\f21\fs18  empire\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. The Ghana empire was overrun by this militant confederation of Berber tribes in the 11}{\f21\fs18\up6 th}{\f21\fs18 
 century. This group finally captured Kumbi Saleh in 1076.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Almoravid}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 3. Kumbi Saleh was situated at the headwaters of the Niger and this river.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Senegal}{\f21\fs18  River\par 
\par 
Identify these 20}{\f21\fs18\up6 th }{\f21\fs18 century philosophers from works FTP each.\par 
A. }{\i\f21\fs18 Sein und Zeit}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Being and Time}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Martin }{\f21\fs18\ul Heidegger}{\f21\fs18 \par 
B. }{\i\f21\fs18 Of Grammatology}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Speech and Phenomena}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Jacques }{\f21\fs18\ul Derrida}{\f21\fs18 \par 
C. }{\i\f21\fs18 Totality and Infinity}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Otherwise Than Being or Beyond Essence}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer: Emmanuel }{\f21\fs18\ul Levinas\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
Identify the following about VSEPR [ves per] theory FTP each.\par 
1. All or nothing, expand the acronym VSEPR. [MODERATOR: spell out for the teams]\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Valence-Shell-Electron-Pair Repulsion}{\f21\fs18  Theory\par 
2. VSEPR theory predicts this geometric arrangement for phosphorus pentachloride, P-Cl-5.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul trigonal bipyramidal}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Xenon tetrafluoride, with four bonding electron pairs and two lone pairs, adopts this geometrical arrangement.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul octahedral}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Answer the following about Raphael for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) Raphael is best known for this massive fresco immortalizing the great philosophers. \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul School of Athens}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) Raphael designed 10 large tapestries for the walls of this structure, which was more famously decorated by Michelangelo.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sistine Chapel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 
3. (10 points) This final Raphael masterpiece, completed by Giulio Romano, was placed at the head of his funeral bier before he was buried in the Pantheon.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Transfiguration}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 {\f21\fs18 4. (10 points) Raphael\rquote s \ldblquote School of Athens\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Disputa\rdblquote 
 are in the Stanza della Segnatura, the living quarters of this pope.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab }{\f21\fs18 Answer: Pope }{\f21\fs18\ul Julius II}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}