{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff6\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f128\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f129\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f131\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f132\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f133\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f134\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f135\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo2\dy15\hr14\min38}{\revtim\yr2001\mo6\dy23\hr2\min44}{\version3}{\edmins7}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords3871}{\nofchars22065}{\nofcharsws27097}
{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale91\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f5\fs18 Tossups by Johns Hopkins University
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. His first book was 1925's }{\i\f5\fs18 Babbling April}{\f5\fs18 , a collection of verse, and his first novel, }{\i\f5\fs18 The Man Within}{\f5\fs18 , appeared four years later. His late novels include }{\i\f5\fs18 Monsignor Quixote}{\f5\fs18  and }{
\i\f5\fs18 The Human Factor}{\f5\fs18 , but he is better remembered for earlier works like }{\i\f5\fs18 Brighton Rock}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The Ministry of Fear}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 The End of the Affair}{\f5\fs18 
. FTP, name this British novelist, whose other novels include }{\i\f5\fs18 The Third Man}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The Heart of the Matter}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Our Man in Havana}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Graham }{\f5\fs18\ul Greene}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. Although known to Europeans for 155 years, the first systematic observations of these objects weren\rquote t carried out until 1678 when Edmund Halley spent two years on the island of St. Hel
ena. One lies in the constellation Dorado, while another is in the constellation Tucana, and they are visible as far north as 16 degrees north latitude. The distance to this pair of objects was first estimated in 1912 by Henrietta Levitt using Cepheid var
iable stars and the supernova observed in the larger one in 1987 provided a better measurement. FTP, name these small, irregular companion galaxies, orbiting the Milky Way at a distance of just over 50 kiloparsecs.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Magellanic Cloud}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par 3. He was imprisoned after the death of the ruler of Hamadan, but after being liberated he disguised himself as a dervish and moved to Isfahan, where he spent the rest of his life serving Ala al-Dawla. His most important philosophical works are }{
\i\f5\fs18 al-Najat}{\f5\fs18 , or "The Deliverance," which summarizes the enormous }{\i\f5\fs18 al-Shifa}{\f5\fs18 , while his mystical views can be seen in }{\i\f5\fs18 al-Isharat wa al-Tanbihat}{\f5\fs18 
, or "The Directives and Remarks." FTP, name this philosopher, who adapted Aristotle and the Neoplatonists to Islamic thought and also wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 al-Qanun fi al-Tibb}{\f5\fs18 , or "The Canon of Medicine."
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Avicenna}{\f5\fs18  or Abu 'Ali al-Husayn ibn Abd-Allah }{\f5\fs18\ul ibn Sina
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. In Europe, the most prestigious competition in this sport is the Lugano Trophy, held biannually since 1961. First included in the Olympic Games
 in 1908, the IAAF defines legal movement as performed so that at least one foot is touching the ground at all times. When a foot is on the ground, that leg must be straightened. FTP, in what sport does the Olympics award medals for distances ranging from
 3 to 50 kilometers, a sport in which even the most unathletic of College Bowlers could probably compete by the age of two?
\par \tab Answer: Race }{\f5\fs18\ul Walking
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 5. The battle was over in less than twenty minutes, and resulted in the capture of 918 enemy troops by eight i
n the morning. Colonel Johann Rall and his 1400 soldiers rose quickly and fought with courage, but they were overwhelmed by Washington's surprise attack of 2400 men. FTP, what December 26, 1776 defeat of Hessian forces in New Jersey led Cornwallis to leav
e his winter camp and engage Washington at Princeton a week later?
\par \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f5\fs18\ul Trenton
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 6. His career in academia has seen him teaching economics at Harvard, engineering at Yale, physiology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and mathematics 
at Paris and Geneva. Although his groundbreaking work in the field did not begin until 1977, he was actually introduced to it in 1945 by his uncle, who gave him a copy of Julia\rquote 
s 1917 paper. By formulating the idea that objects can have dimensional values 
that are not whole numbers, he developed fractal geometry as a separate field of mathematics. FTP, name this Polish-born mathematician, creator of the concept of a "set" that has a border that is infinitely detailed with dimension between one and two.

\par \tab Answer: Benoit B. }{\f5\fs18\ul Mandelbrot}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 7. The word probably derives from the Lydian for "double axe," which has little to do with its physical form but links it to an ancient religious symbol. There was one on the island of Lemnos and another at Nauplia, while one of 
the most celebrated in the ancient world was a funeral temple built by Amenemhet III in Egypt, which contained 3000 chambers. FTP, identify this type of building, the best known example of which was built for King Minos on the island of Crete by Daedalus 
and housed the Minotaur.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul labyrinth}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. Its largest river is the Sadang, which is navigable by small boats, while its surface reaches one of its highest elevations in Mount Lompobatang, an extinct volcano in the southern part of the island. Its capi
tal is at Ujungpandang, located on the Makassar Strait; elsewhere it juts out in four  peninsulas, separated by the Gulfs of Tomini, Tolo, and Bone. FTP, name the island, Indonesia's third largest.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Celebes
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 9. Six varieties of this mineral are rec
ognized, including grossularite, pyrope, spessartite, uvarovite, andradite, and almandine, the last of which serves as the state mineral for Connecticut. Large quantities of them are ground up and made into a kind of sandpaper, while their hardness on the
 Mohs scale varies from 6 to 7.5. FTP, identify this group of silicate minerals, a red gemstone variety of which is the birthstone for January.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul garnet}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 10. Eusebius of Caesarea records that he preached Christianity among the Scythians, thus becomin
g the patron saint of Russia. Originally a disciple of John the Baptist, he was a Galilean fisherman of Bethsaida and the brother  of Simon, also known as the apostle Peter. FTP, which apostle of Jesus Christ was crucified at Patras on an X-shaped cross i
n the same form found on the flag of Scotland?
\par \tab Answer: Saint }{\f5\fs18\ul Andrew}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. The son of a Philadelphia surgeon, he graduated second in his class at West Point in 1846, and then taught military engineering there. Named ch
ief engineer of the Illinois Central Railroad in 1857, he became a major general  of Ohio volunteers four years later. He lost a major election in 1864, but got some consolation when he was elected governor of New Jersey after the Civil War. FTP, what Uni
on general, dubbed "Little Mac," was removed by Lincoln after his Peninsular Campaign failed?
\par \tab Answer: George Brinton }{\f5\fs18\ul McClellan}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12. Although she isn't George McClellan, her father was also a surgeon, and she studied philosophy and English literature at Vas
sar before moving on to study under, among others, Alexander Goldenweiser at Columbia. She published two volumes on Zuni (ZOON-yi) mythology in 1935, while she created a "configurational" approach to entire cultures, where each culture could be characteri
zed in terms of its own distinct ethos. FTP, name this American anthropologist, who also studied Japanese culture in }{\i\f5\fs18 The Chrysanthemum and the Sword}{\f5\fs18  and may be best known for }{\i\f5\fs18 Patterns of Culture}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Ruth Fulton }{\f5\fs18\ul Benedict}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 13. The author wrote a sequel 
to this play in 1952 which focuses on the character of Jamie. This play features only five characters: Cathleen, a servant girl; the aforementioned Jamie, who is the elder son and an alcoholic; another son named Edmund who is consumptive; a wife addicted 
to morphine; and the patriarch of the family, a tight-fisted actor named James. FTP, identify the play which centers around the Tyrone family, a 1957 Pulitzer Prize winner which was published after the death of its author, Eugene O'Neill.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Long Day's Journey Into Night}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 14. In 1852 she married Otto Goldschmidt, who conducted the Bach choir in London. At age eighteen she made her debut in }{\i\f5\fs18 Der Freischutz}{\f5\fs18 
, as Agathe, the leading soprano role, and that Stockholm Opera performance led to immediate success
. FTP, identify this singer who toured the United States from 1850 to 1852, when she was managed by P.T. Barnum, and who was nicknamed the "Swedish Nightingale."
\par \tab Answer: Jenny }{\f5\fs18\ul Lind}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. Their final defeat came in 1258, when Hulagu Khan put the last ruler 
to death. For three centuries before that, they served only as figureheads, at the mercy of military commanders. With their capital at Baghdad, their glory days were in the eighth and ninth centuries, under the leadership of Abdullah al-Mamun and his fath
er, Harun ar-Rashid. FTP, name the caliphate which overthrew the Umayyads in 750, descendants of the uncle of Mohammed.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Abbasid}{\f5\fs18  Caliphate
\par 
\par 16. His essay, "The Painter of Modern Life," advocated the use of contemporary subject matter for painters, and was an influence on Manet. He also published studies of Balzac and Flaubert, as well as an autobiographical novel, }{\i\f5\fs18 La Fanfarlo}{
\f5\fs18 . FTP, identify this author, who translated Poe into French but is best known for a collection which includes such poems as "Correspondences," "Invitation to the Voyage," and "Spleen," 1857's }{\i\f5\fs18 The Flowers of Evil}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Charles }{\f5\fs18\ul Baudelaire
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 17. In 1450 supporting arches had to be inserted at its crossing, due to the great weight of its 404 foot high tower and spire, the talle
st of its kind in Britain. Set in a walled enclosure and rendered almost entirely in the Early English Gothic Style, construction on it began in 1220 and continued uninterrupted for fifty years. FTP, what is the name of this church of Saint Mary, perhaps 
the closest cathedral to Stonehenge?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Salisbury}{\f5\fs18  Cathedral
\par 
\par 18. The year before it took place, the king had appointed a ministry led by the Prince of Polignac, the so-called "Ultra of the Ultras." On the 26th, Adolphe Thiers wrote a response to five 
ordinances that dissolved the Chamber and gave the government control over the press, and two days later the rebels put up barricades and seized the Hotel de Ville. FTP, identify this uprising, which forced King Charles X to abdicate and resulted in a con
stitutional monarchy led by Louis Philippe, named for the summer month in which it took place in 1830.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul July}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Juillet}{\f5\fs18  Revolution or Uprising or whatever (prompt on the }{\f5\fs18\ul Revolution of 1830}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 19. He designed both the Montague House and Bethlehem Hospital in London, but is known primarily as a scientist. He analyzed the nature of combustion, used the balance spring for the regulation of watches, and pioneered microscopic research, discovering p
lant cells in his observations. FTP, name this English scientist, best known for his work in elasticity and namesake law relating the elongation of a spring to the force applied.
\par \tab Answer: Robert }{\f5\fs18\ul Hooke
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 20. In Chapter 9, the protagonist of the novel is asked
 to conduct an Italian colleague on a tour of the Cathedral, but he never shows up and a priest tells a parable about the doorkeeper to the Law. The protagonist's uncle Karl takes him to Herr Huld, who becomes his lawyer, and he sleeps with his servant Le
ni, who is attracted to anyone who has been accused. FTP, identify this novel, which was published posthumously in 1925 and begins with the arrest one fine morning of Joseph K., a work by Franz Kafka.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Trial}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Der }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Prozess}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT1. It stands at 731
0 feet tall, and is located in the center of the Snowy Mountains. First climbed in 1840 by explorer Paul Strzelecki, FTP, what mountain located 100 miles southwest of Canberra was named after a Polish miltary leader and national hero and is the tallest in
 Australia?
\par \tab Answer: Mount }{\f5\fs18\ul Kosciusko}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT2. In humans, it increases in weight in the first two years of life, and from then until puberty grows slowly to a weight of about 1.5 ounces. After puberty, it shrinks gradually and its lymphatic tissue is replaced b
y fat, though it also contains a few small areas of epithelial tissue known as Hassall's corpuscles. FTP, name this gland, which is located just beneath the upper portion of the sternum in almost all vertebrates, in which T cells mature and from which tho
se cells derive their name.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul thymus}{\f5\fs18  gland
\par 
\par OT3. Though three figures appear in the work, it has no discernible subject, and was an influence on the landscapes of Claude Lorraine and Rembrandt. In the background lies a bridge over a small stream 
and a number of buildings, while in the foreground at left stands a soldier holding a tall staff, staring at a mostly nude mother nursing a baby to the right. FTP, name the 1505 painting by Giorgione, which derives its name from the stormy skies at the to
p.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Tempest}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par In modern times its rise began with the publication of a treatise by Richard Ungewitter in 1906. London, Ontario and Kissimmee, Florida contain headquarters of Canadian and American associations devoted to it, while the first organi
zed movement in the United States, the American League of Physical Culture, was established in 1929. FTP, what practice, found in archaelogical evidence since Assyrian times, advocates living without clothes?
\par \tab Answer: Nudism (or Nude sunbathing)
\par 
\par It includ
es the remains of a palace, two ball courts, and three temples shaped like truncated pyramids. Located in Hidalgo State, its ruins date from the tenth to the thirteenth century. The largest temple on the site is surmounted by 15-foot columns in the form o
f stylized human figures, and was probably dedicated to Quetzalcoatl. FTP, what archaeological site was once the capital city of the Toltecs?
\par \tab Answer: Tula (or Tollan)
\par 
\par It was founded in 1891 at a convention in Cincinnati, Ohio, and was organized by Farmers
' Alliance leader and journalist Ignatius Donnelly. The group demanded direct election of senators, a graduated income tax, nationalization of the railroads, and free coinage of silver. In 1892 their Presidential candidate, James B. Weaver, received 22 el
ectoral votes, but for ten points, what party is known best for endorsing the same candidate as the Democrats in 1896, William Jennings Bryan?
\par \tab Answer:  People's Party (or Populist Party)
\par 
\par Great-grandfather: Charles the Bold, duke of Burgundy. Paternal gran
dfather: Maximilian I. Father: Philip I, king of Castile. Maternal grandparents: Ferdinand and Isabella. FTP, what Habsburg used all of these beneficial relations to become king of Spain and Holy Roman Emperor by 1519?
\par \tab Answer: Charles V (or Charles I)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \page }{\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f5\fs18 Boni by Johns Hopkins
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Answer these questions about a planet FTP each.
\par 1. Originally named Georgium Sidus for the royal patron of its discoverer, its current name was proposed in the nineteenth century by Johann Bode.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Uranus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. While Titania and Oberon were discovered by Herschel, and Ariel and Umbriel were found in 1851 by William Lassell, this fifth moon, located by Kuiper in 1948, was thought to be the innermost of Uranus until 1986.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Miranda}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. In 1986, this space probe proved that Miranda was not the closest moon; in all, it discovered ten new moons of Uranus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Voyager II}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. Identify these characters from }{\i\f5\fs18 The Aeneid}{\f5\fs18 , FTP each.
\par 1. This son of Hyrtacus appears in two episodes, one in Book 5 where he helps his young lover Euryalus win a footrace, and again in Book 9 when he dies avenging Euryalus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Nisus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. The king of Ardea and the Rutulians, he is Lavinia's main suitor before Aeneas arrives, and goes on to lead the Latin opposition to the Trojans until he is killed by Aeneas in the poem's final lines.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Turnus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This helmsman of Aeneas is overcome by Sleep, falls overboard, and is killed by Italians, whereupon his shade meets Aeneas in the underworld.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Palinurus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. Answer the following about one of the more ambitious measures of Franklin Roosevelt's first hundred days in office FTP each.
\par 1. Passed in June 1933, this act established a Public Works Administration, suspended relevant antitrust regulations, and set up a cartel-like price system.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul National Industrial Recovery}{\f5\fs18  Act or }{\f5\fs18\ul NIR}{\f5\fs18 A (prompt on }{\f5\fs18\ul National Recovery}{\f5\fs18  Act)
\par 2. Those businesses who cooperated with the National Recovery Administration displayed what colored animal symbol on their window fronts?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Blue eagle}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Identify the Secretary of Commerce who was appointed head of the Public Works Administration; he served until the PWA was abandoned in 1939.
\par \tab Answer: Harold }{\f5\fs18\ul Ickes
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. Identify these American marshlands, FTP each.
\par 1. Covering much of southern Florida, the region was formed by thousands of years of overflow from Lake Okeechobee after heavy rains, and contains the Ten Thousand Islands.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Everglades}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This subtropical swamp lies north of the Everglades in southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida. Its name means "trembling ground," and it drains through the Suwannee River.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Okefenokee}{\f5\fs18  Swamp
\par 3. Surveyed in 1763 by George Washington, it borders Lake Drummond, and is located in the eastern part of Virginia and North Carolina.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Great Dismal}{\f5\fs18  Swamp
\par 
\par 5. Given a pair of short stories, identify the American author who penned them for fifteen points each. If you need easier stories, you'll only receive ten points, and if you need the title of a novel written by the author, you will earn five points.

\par 1. (15 points) "The New Adam and Eve" and "Earth's Holocaust"
\par (10 points) "Doctor Heidegger's Experiment" and "My Kinsman, Major Molineux"
\par (5 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 The House of the Seven Gables}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Nathaniel }{\f5\fs18\ul Hawthorne}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (15 points) "A Late Encounter with the Enemy" and "A Temple of the Holy Ghost"
\par (10 points) "Good Country People" and "The Life You Save May Be Your Own"
\par (5 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 Wise Blood}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Flannery }{\f5\fs18\ul O'Connor
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 6. Identify the following cases of the Burger court, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This 1973 decision legalized a woman's right to abortion in the first trimester.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Roe v. Wade}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) In 1978 Lewis Powell provided the swing vote in this case, which struck down a medical school admissions quota system but upheld the use of affirmative action as a factor of admission.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Regents}{\f5\fs18  of the University of California at Davis v. }{\f5\fs18\ul Bakke}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) In 1972, the justices held in this case that the Amish community could be exempted from sending their children to school under a compulsory education law.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Wisconsin v. Yoder}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 7. Answer the following about the sex life of plants, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points each) Plants undergo alternation of generations in their life cycle. Name these two generations, one a sexual phase that produces eggs and sperm and the other an asexual phase.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answers: }{\f5\fs18\ul Gametophyte}{\f5\fs18  and }{\f5\fs18\ul Sporophyte}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 2. (10 points) Most phyla of plants feature the sporophyte generation as the conspicuous form, but this phylum, which includes mosses and liverworts, has a dominant gametophyte phase.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Bryophyta}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 3. (10 points) During their gametophyte generation, member of bryophyta can reproduce asexually via two methods. Name either method for a final ten points.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul gemmae}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul bulbil}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par 8. Answer these questions about a movement in literary criticism FTP each.
\par 1. This movement's name was coined by Joel Spingarn in 1910, but gained recognition when John Crowe Ransom used it as the title of a book on methods in 1941. Major figures included Ransom, Allen Tate, and Robert Penn Warren.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul New Criticism}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Ransom's }{\i\f5\fs18 The New Criticism}{\f5\fs18  contained chapters on four critics. In the second chapter, he treated this author of }{\i\f5\fs18 For Launcelot Andrews}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 The Sacred Wood}{\f5\fs18 
, and the essay "Tradition and the Individual Talent" as an example of an historical critic.
\par \tab Answer: T. S. }{\f5\fs18\ul Eliot}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Ransom began his book with a chapter on I. A. Richards as a "psychological critic" which also looked at this critic, who was Richards's pupil and the author of such books as }{\i\f5\fs18 Seven Types of Ambiguity}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 
The Structure of Complex Words}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: William }{\f5\fs18\ul Empson}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 9. In the wake of nations constantly devaluing their currencies during the Great Depression, Allied powers met at a vacation resort in 1944. Answer these questions about that meeting, FTP each.
\par 1. In what New Hampshire town did the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference takes place from July 1-22, creating a new economic system?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Bretton Woods}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. The Bretton Woods system is the common name for this system of exchange rates, where nations defined their monetary units in terms of gold or dollars, and kept their currency values stable in the short run.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Adjustable peg}{\f5\fs18  system
\par 3. At Bretton Woods this association was created; it was formed to make loans of foreign monies to nations with temporary payment deficits and to administer the Adjustable Peg System.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul I. M. F.}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul International Monetary Fund
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 10. Answer these questions about a French composer, FTP each.
\par 1. After winning the 1839 Prix de Rome, he became an organist at a small church in Paris, where he wrote his first opera, 1851's }{\i\f5\fs18 Sapho}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Charles }{\f5\fs18\ul Gounod}{\f5\fs18  (goo-NO)
\par 2. Gounod is best remembered for this opera, which premiered in Paris on March 19, 1859.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Faust}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Gounod's later works include this 1867 opera, based on a work by Shakespeare.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Romeo and Juliet}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par 11. Given a brief description, identify the following physical effects FTP each.
\par 1. Discovered in 1896, interactions with an external magnetic field break the degeneracies in electron orbits, leading to widened or even split spectral lines.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Zeeman}{\f5\fs18  effect
\par 2. Named for the two German physicists who discovered it in 1912, spectral lines that give the anomalous Zeeman effect in a weak magnetic field show a splitting pattern in a strong magnetic field because the energi
es of precession are greater than the energies of coupling.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Paschen-Back}{\f5\fs18  effect
\par 3. First discovered in 1883, Owen Richardson\rquote s work twelve years later on the theoretical understanding of this effect by which electrons are emitted by heated metals earned him the Nobel Prize in 1928.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Edison}{\f5\fs18  effect
\par 
\par 12. Identify the following characters from a Thomas Hardy novel, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This title character of an 1895 work, with a last name of Fawley, first marries Arabella, who gives him a son, but deserts them both.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Jude}{\f5\fs18  Fawley (or }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Jude the Obscure}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. (10 points) Jude falls in love with this cousin of his, who lives with Jude and has children but does not marry him.
\par \tab Answer: Sue }{\f5\fs18\ul Bridehead}{\f5\fs18  (prompt on "Sue")
\par 3. (15 points) This is the name of Jude's son by Arabella, who kills Sue's two children and himself because they are too many.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Father Time}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 13. There were fifty of them, and their father was "the old man of the sea."
\par 1. (5 points) Identify this group of nymphs whose domain was the Mediterranean.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Nereid}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 2. (10 points) The father of the Nereids was, of course, Nereus, but who was their mother?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Doris}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (5 points each) Identify the three most famous Nereids. If that isn't enough information for you, it may help to know that one was the mother of Achilles, another was the wife of Poseidon, and the third was loved by the Cyclops Polyphemus.
\par \tab Answers: }{\f5\fs18\ul Thetis}{\f5\fs18  and }{\f5\fs18\ul Amphitrite}{\f5\fs18  and }{\f5\fs18\ul Galatea}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 14. Given the title of a rap album, name the artist FTP each.
\par 1. }{\i\f5\fs18 Black on Both Sides}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Mos Def}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. }{\i\f5\fs18 The 18th Letter}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Rakim
\par }{\f5\fs18 3. }{\i\f5\fs18 Criminal Minded}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Boogie Down Productions }{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. 30-20-10, identify the statesman.
\par 1. His last speech was read to the Senate by Virginia's Senator Mason in 1850, the year of his death. After he died, his "Discourse on the Constitution," which suggested a dual executive from the north and the south, was published.
\par 2. He served in the cabinets of two Democratic presidents, as Secretary of War under James Monroe and Secretary of State under John Tyler.
\par 3. Elected Vice-President in 1824, eight years later he resigned in the wake of the South Carolina nullification crisis relating to the Tariff of Abominations.
\par \tab Answer: John Caldwell }{\f5\fs18\ul Calhoun
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 16. Given an inventor and a year, identify the scope that was invented by him, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) Hans Lippershey, 1608
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Telescope}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) Rene Laennec, 1819
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Stethoscope}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (5 points) Kirchoff and Bunsen, 1859
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Spectroscope}{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. (10 points) Binnig and Roher, 1983
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Scanning-tunneling}{\f5\fs18  microscope
\par 
\par 17. Given the twentieth century sculpture, identify its creator FTP each.
\par 1. }{\i\f5\fs18 Floor Burger}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Claes }{\f5\fs18\ul Oldenburg}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. }{\i\f5\fs18 Pointing Man}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Alberto }{\f5\fs18\ul Giacometti}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. }{\i\f5\fs18 Monument to the Third International}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Vladimir }{\f5\fs18\ul Tatlin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. Given a European monarch, identify the Chinese dynasty during which he ruled FTP each.
\par 1. Edward II of England
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Yuan}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Francis I of France
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ming}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Otto I of the Holy Roman Empire
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Song}{\f5\fs18  (or }{\f5\fs18\ul Sung}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 19. Identify the philosophical doctrine, 30-20-10.
\par 1. In the twentieth century it has taken on a more flexible meaning. The pragmatist William James formulated a "radical"  version of it.
\par 2. Immanuel Kant attempted to build a compromise between it and rationalism, assigning knowledge to this philosophy. Francis Bacon anticipated some of its characteristic conclusions.
\par 3. John Locke was the first to give this philosophy systematic expression. It affirms that all knowledge is based on experience, and denies the possibility of spontaneous ideas.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul empiricism
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 20. Answer the following about codons, FTP each.
\par 1. The sequence AUG codes for methionine and also serves as the start sequence for this type of RNA.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul mRNA}{\f5\fs18  (also accept }{\f5\fs18\ul messenger RNA}{\f5\fs18 ) 
\par 2. This amino acid, which cannot be synthesized in the body and is essential to muscle growth, can be created from six different combinations of codons, the most of any amino acid.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul leucine}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Three different codons can initiate a stop to the protein synthesis sequence. Name any one, for a final ten points.
\par \tab Answers: }{\f5\fs18\ul UAA}{\f5\fs18 , }{\f5\fs18\ul UGA}{\f5\fs18 , or }{\f5\fs18\ul UAG}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Identify this thing from the world of science, 30-20-10.
\par 1. It was discovered in 1915 by British investigator Frederick Twort. In 1952 American biologists discovered that it can transduce genes from one bacterium to another.
\par 2. Frederick Sanger won a 1980 Nobel Prize for his use of it in DNA sequencing, eleven years after Delbruck, Hershey, and Luria won their Nobel for research with it.
\par 3. Present in human waste and in soil and sewage, it is a virus that is a parasite of bacteria.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Phage}{\f5\fs18  (or }{\f5\fs18\ul Bacteriophage}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par Two directors have won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Film at least three times.
\par 1. (5 points each) Name those two directors.
\par \tab Answers: Ingmar }{\f5\fs18\ul Bergman}{\f5\fs18  and Federico }{\f5\fs18\ul Fellini}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (5 points each) Name any four of the seven movies for which Bergman or Fellini won their awards.
\par \tab Answers: }{\i\f5\fs18 La }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Strada}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Nights of Cabiria}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Virgin Spring}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Through a Glass, Darkly}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18\ul 8 1/2}{\f5\fs18 
; }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Amarcord}{\f5\fs18 ; }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Fanny and Alexander}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par In 1910 four colonies or states formed the Union of South Africa.
\par 1. First, for five points each, name them.
\par \tab Answers: }{\f5\fs18\ul Orange Free State}{\f5\fs18 , }{\f5\fs18\ul Transvaal}{\f5\fs18 , }{\f5\fs18\ul Natal}{\f5\fs18 , }{\f5\fs18\ul Cape Colony}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. FTP, what was the name of the journey Afrikaners made to the Transvaal, Orange Free State, and Natal to avoid British rule in the Cape Colony?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Great Trek}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par MTV's "Total Request Live" has featured a number of videos from artists at least a decade younger than John Nam. Given a song, name the artist who has had a video on TRL for five points each and a five-point bonus for all correct.
\par 1. "Candy"
\par \tab Answer: Mandy }{\f5\fs18\ul Moore}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. "What a Girl Wants"
\par \tab Answer: Christina }{\f5\fs18\ul Aguilera}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. "Larger Than Life"
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Backstreet Boys}{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. "Girl on TV"
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul LFO}{\f5\fs18 
\par 5. "I Do"
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul 98 Degrees}{\f5\fs18 
\par }}