{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title Kentucky}{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1 
{\header \pard\plain \f22 {\plain \fs20 \par 
}}{\footer \pard\plain \f22 {\plain \fs20 \par 
}}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Questions by Kentucky A (Kelly McKenzie)\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Its direct introduction can be accomplished via the oxo process or by the action with carbon dioxide of Grignard reagents, and can be introduced indirectly by the oxidation of primary and seco
ndary alcohols. Present in many flavoring and perfume components, this divalent chemical unit is a constituent of acyl halides, quinones, amides, esters, and anhydrides, and is the characteristic functional group of ketones and aldehydes. FTP, name this fu
nctional group consisting of an oxygen atom and a carbon atom connected by a double bond.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul carbonyl}{\f21\fs18  group (do not accept metal carbonyl)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The dwarf Brokk was bit on the eyelid by Loki in the guise of a horsefly while making this item, and while 
Brokk wiped the blood out of his eye, the fire cooled, causing part of this item to be too short. It was once buried nine miles underground by Thrym, who would return it only if he could marry Freya, but its owner disguised himself as Freya and killed Thry
m instead. After Ragnarok, this weapon, which hits any object at which it is thrown and always return to its owner, will be passed on to Modi and Magni. FTP, name this hammer wielded by Thor.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mjolnir}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on Thor's hammer)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This literary character helps to ruin the life of the chemistry student Alan Campbell, and his cruel treatment of his fianc\'8ee, the young actress Sibyl Vane, results in Sibyl\rquote 
s suicide. Aided by his friend Lord Henry Wotton he leads a sensuous, hedonistic life until he murd
ers the artist Basil Hallward, after which his withered corpse is found lying before a portrait depicting his former youth and beauty. FTP, name this title character of a novel by Oscar Wilde.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Dorian }{\f21\fs18\ul Gray}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4. This battle began at dawn when Joseph Hooker\rquote s corps mounted an assault on Lee\rquote s left flank. Fighting continued across Miller\rquote 
s cornfield and around the Dunker Church until Union assaults against the Sunken Road pierced the Confederate center. Late in the day, Burnside\rquote s corps crossed the battle\rquote s namesake creek and rolled the Confederate right until A.P. Hill
\rquote s division arrived from Harper\rquote s Ferry and saved the Confederate cause. FTP, name this September 17, 1862 battle, fought in Maryland, which halted the Confederate advance on Washington following Second Manassas.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Antietam}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Sharpsburg}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
5. The 1st, 3rd, 5th, 8th, and 11th sections of this work are "promenades" which link its other sections. "Cum mortuis in lingua mortua" is the second part of its "Catacombs" section, which, along with sections entitled "Ballet of the Unhatched Chicks", "T
he Gnome", "The Market Place at Limoges", and "The Bohatyr Gate of Kiev", serve as musical "reproductions" of ten pieces of art by Victor Hartmann. FTP, name this composition by Modest Mussorgsky.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Pictures at an Exhibition}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Kartinki s vistavki}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
6. This scientist contributed to studies explaining the absorption properties of coals while a member of the British Coal Utilization Research Association, and after working with Jacques Mering, researched the structural changes caused by the formation of 
graphite in heated carbons. Before dying at age 37, this scientist collaborated on studies showing that the RNA in the tobacco mosaic virus is embedded in its protein and that RNA is a single stra
nd helix, but she is best known for establishing the helical conformation and density of DNA. FTP, name this scientist who applied X-ray diffraction methods to the study of DNA.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Rosalind }{\f21\fs18\ul Franklin\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
7. In the opening pages of the novel in which he appears, this character is feigning illness in a hospital, but the presence of the "soldier in white" and a hideously affable Texan drive him back to active duty. Greatly affected by the death of a young gun
ner named Snowden, this member of the Fighting 256
th Squadron is last seen following the example of Orr, who crashed his plane in the Mediterrean and escaped from Pianosa to Sweden, but not before this character tries to claim insanity to avoid more bombing missions. FTP, name this captain described in }
{\i\f21\fs18 Catch-22}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Captain John }{\f21\fs18\ul Yossarian}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. This psychologist rose to fame with the article "Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations", based upon his experiences as a prisoner at Dachau and Buchenwald, but his reputation suffered after his death
 when it was revealed that he had fabricated his doctorate from the University of Vienna and that he had abused and misdiagnosed patients while head of the University of Chicago's Sonia Shankman Orthogenic School. FTP, name this author of }{\i\f21\fs18 
Children of the Dream}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Truants from Life}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Love Is Not Enough}{\f21\fs18 , best known for his work concerning emotionally disturbed children.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Bruno }{\f21\fs18\ul Bettelheim}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 9. While attending the City College of New York, this man joined with Chandler Owen to found an employment agency, and in 1917 they established the }{\i\f21\fs18 Messenger}{\f21\fs18 
 magazine. Founder of the League for Non-Violent Civil Disobedience Against Military Segregation, in 1963 he became director of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, twenty two years after he had organized a march on Washington which resulted in th
e establishment of the Fair Employment Practices Committee. FTP, name this activist who organized the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Asa Philip }{\f21\fs18\ul Randolph}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 10. This author of }{\i\f21\fs18 On the Rainbow}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 On the Calculation of Chances}{\f21\fs18 
 withdrew to the village of Rijnsburg shortly after his excommunication in order to organize his philosophy, the result being his }{\i\f21\fs18 Short Treatise on God, Man, and His Well-Being}{\f21\fs18 
. He advocated use of the historical method for biblical interpretations in }{\i\f21\fs18 Tractatus Theologico-Politicus}{\f21\fs18 , and published a version of Descartes' }{\i\f21\fs18 Principia Philosophiae}{\f21\fs18 
, written in the same geometrical style which would be utilized in his most famous work. FTP, name this 17th century rationalist philosopher, best known for his }{\i\f21\fs18 Ethics}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: (Benedict) Baruch de }{\f21\fs18\ul Spinoza}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
11. Shown by Lord Rayleigh to arise from a cylindrical formulation of LaPlace's equation, forms of these functions had been studied by Daniel Bernoulli and Leonhard Euler, but they were not derived in full until 1817. Commonly combined to form Hankel and N
eumann functions, they were used to study the three-body problem and later shown to appear in the mathematical descriptions of the diffraction of light, the motions of fluids, and many other p
hysical phenomena. FTP, identify these functions designated J sub n, which are solutions to the equation x squared times y double prime plus x times y prime plus y times the quantity x squared minus n squared equals 0, named for a German astronomer.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bessel}{\f21\fs18  functions\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. A symbolic presentation of this author's life can be seen in his last play, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Great Highway}{\f21\fs18 , which was preceded by historical dramas like }{\i\f21\fs18 Erik XIV}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Gustavus Vasa}
{\f21\fs18 , the latter of which was a continuation of his first successful play, }{\i\f21\fs18 Master Olaf}{\f21\fs18 . Famous for works like }{\i\f21\fs18 A Dream Play}{\f21\fs18  and his }{\i\f21\fs18 Chamber Plays}{\f21\fs18 , which includes }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Ghost Sonata}{\f21\fs18 , this author is probably best known for his naturalistic dramas, which were based in part upon his unsuccessful marriages. FTP, name this Swedish author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Creditors}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Father}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Miss Julie}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: August }{\f21\fs18\ul Strindberg}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 13. Corrections to paintings of this type are often made via the secco process, and copies can be made using the techniques of strappo and stacco. Typically, after a scratch co
at, brown coat, and sand coat are created, a preliminary sketch is pounced on the surface, and after the intonaco, or painting coat, is laid, the artist paints on the intonaco until the surface becomes too dry to accept new paint. Major examples can be fou
nd in the Arena chapel at Padua and the Sistine Chapel. FTP, name this type of painting in which the pigments become an integral part of a wall.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul fresco}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. This statesman served as archon under the Peisistratids, and after the overthrow of the ty
ranny he headed a faction opposed to Isagoras. Son of Megacles and grandson of a tyrant of Sicyon, he was briefly forced into exile when Isagoras called upon the support of Cleomenes I of Sparta, but he was soon able to return to Athens due to the populari
ty of his proposed political reforms, which divided the citizens of Athens into 10 phylai, or tribes, each of which contributed 50 members annually to the Boule. FTP, name this 6th century BCE reformer, who is credited with introducing ostracism, and is of
ten called the founder of Athenian democracy.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cleisthenes}{\f21\fs18  of Athens\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 15. As described by 
Sakharov, the asymmetry due to this phenomenon in the first seconds of the big bang may explain the observed matter-antimatter ratio in the universe. Theoretical attempts to explain this phenomenon via the Kobayashi-Maskawa model and the super-weak model w
ere motivated by the behavior of charged K mesons. The existence of the effect was proven in 1964 when James Cronin and Val Fitch demonstrated that the 
neutral K meson decayed a fraction of the time into only two pi mesons instead of three. FTP, name this phenomenon which occurs when certain conservation laws are violated.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul CP}{\f21\fs18  violation (or }{\f21\fs18\ul charge-conjunction parity}{\f21\fs18  violation)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 16. In this poem, the poet wonders if it would be better to sport with Amaryllis in the shade then meditate the thankless muse, and the \ldblquote pilot of the Galilean lake\rdblquote 
 derides shepherds who care more for their own well-being then for their sheep. A monody in which the author bewails a learned friend unfortunately drowned in his passage from Chester on the Irish seas in 1637, the poem begins \ldblquote 
Yet once more, O ye laurels, and once more / Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere, / I come to pluck your berries harsh and rude.\rdblquote  FTP, identify this elegy on the death of Edward King, named for the lost shepherd in Virgil\rquote 
s third Bucolic, and written by John Milton.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lycidas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 17. One of this island\rquote s unique political features is a 61 member regional parliament with the power to scrutinize its country\rquote 
s National Assembly bills and propose amendments to those that apply to the island. A mountainous island with area 3,358 square miles and home to approximately 250,000 people, it has its capital at the west coast town of Ajaccio (a-jack-
see-oh), and is the main base of the French Foreign Legion. FTP, name this Mediterranean island north of Sardinia, the birthplace of Napoleon.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Corsica}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. This leader, whose mausoleum is called Gur-e Amir, began his military career by joining his
 brother-in-law Amir Husayn to defeat Ilyas Khoja and conquer Transoxania. During the next three decades, he used his mounted archers to subdue Persia, Georgia, the Tatar Empire, Damascus, and Syria, and in 1402 he captured Bayezid I at the Battle of Ankar
a and won Anatolia, thus establishing a vast Asian empire with capital at Samarkand. FTP, name this great-great-grandson of Genghis Khan, the subject of Marlowe's first play, famous for the injuries he sustained in battle.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Timur}{\f21\fs18  Lenk or }{\f21\fs18\ul Timur}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Lame}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Tamerlain}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Tamburlaine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 19. This artist's early style was influenced by Russian expressionism and cubism, as seen in }{\i\f21\fs18 Candles in the Dark}{\f21\fs18 . Known for depictions of his private life, as seen in the print series }{\i\f21\fs18 My Life}{
\f21\fs18 , and for the surrealism inherent in works like }{\i\f21\fs18 Self-Portrait With Seven Fingers}{\f21\fs18 
, this artist also served as art director of the Moscow Jewish State Academy in his hometown of Uitsyebsk, and designed the twelve stained-glass windows in the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center. FTP, name this artist of }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Woman and the Roses}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 White Crucifixion}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 I and the Village}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Marc }{\f21\fs18\ul Chagall}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
20. Among their specialized types are cytotoxic and delayed hypersensitivity, both of which are categorized as effector types of these cells. Originating from bone marrow, the helper type carry receptors that recognize class II antigens and release interle
ukin-2, which in turn triggers the release of other cytokines, leading to a proliferation of B lymphocytes. FTP, name these principal agents of cell-mediated immunity which derive their name from the fact that they mature in the thymus.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul t-cells}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on lymphocytes)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 1. This politician entered the national scene as a House Democrat in 1827, but in 1836 he became a Whig and rose to the position of Secretary of War under Harrison, but resigned after Tyler\rquote 
s break with the Whigs. After 6 years of retirement, he became a senator from Tennessee, and despite his status as a large slaveholder, he championed the cause to limit slavery\rquote s expansio
n into new territories. This, combined with his ardent support of the Union, led to his nomination for president in 1860, when he carried Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee. FTP, name this only presidential candidate of the Constitutional Union Party.
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Bell\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
2. These islands are home to many megalithic monuments, inlcuding taulas, navetas, and talayots. A sill near Cape Nao links this archipelago to the sub-Baetic mountains, of which it is an extension, and is composed of two groups of islands,
 the western of which is called Pitiusas and which includes Formentera and Ibiza. FTP, name this autonomous region of Spain with capital at Palma, whose principal islands are Minorca and Majorca.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Balearic}{\f21\fs18  Islands (Islas Baleares)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. This thinker proposed the reformulation of the major laws of physics so that all calculations can use complex numbers, and put forward a new model of the universe based upon entities he calls \ldblquote twistors
\rdblquote . Author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Shadows of the Mind}{\f21\fs18 , he devised geometrical figures which cannot be constructed in 3-dimensions, as seen in several Escher lithographs, proposed the \ldblquote cosmic censorship\rdblquote 
 hypothesis, and with Stephen Hawking developed the singularity theorems. FTP, name this English scientist, author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Emperor\rquote s New Mind}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Roger }{\f21\fs18\ul Penrose}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
One possibility suggested for this man's identity was General du Bulonde, who, in 1691, raised the siege of Cuneo against the order of Catinat. He is now generally believed to have been Count Girolamo Mattioli, minister to the duke of Mantua, who refused t
o honor his promise to give up the fortress of Casale to the French. This replaced an earlier theory holding that this prisoner was the twin brother of Louis XIV. FTP, name this famous occupant of the Bastille, the subject of liter
ary works by Zschokke, Fournier, and Dumas.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: The _Man in the Iron Mask_\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
This opera was an enormous success when it premered in Berlin in 1816, but was performed only fourteen times before the theater in which it was staged was destroyed by fire. It tells of a mysterious girl born in a palace of crystal on the bed of the ocean,
 who is raised by a fisherman and his wife in place of their own daughter, who had been lost as a baby. After marrying the handsome knight Uldibrand, Bertolda captivates Uldib
rand's heart. Before Bertolda can marry Uldibrand, he has a change of heart and goes to embrace the heroine, but when he touches her, he turns into ice and dies, after which his grave is fed forever by the heroine's tears. FTP, name this opera, the masterp
iece of E.T.A. Hoffmann.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: _Undine_\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Kentucky\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. FTP each, answer these questions about a 17th century English play.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In this play published in 1634, the Theban knights Palamon and Arcite vie for the love of Theseus\rquote  sister-in-law Emilia. It is notably today largely because it was probably written in part by William Shakespeare.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Two Noble Kinsmen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Two Noble Kinsmen}{\f21\fs18  was principally written by this dramatist, most famous for his collaborations with Francis Beaumont on plays like }{\i\f21\fs18 Philaster}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Fletcher}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This author of }{\i\f21\fs18 A New Way to Pay Old Debts}{\f21\fs18  may have also had a hand in writing }{\i\f21\fs18 The Two Noble Kinsmen}{\f21\fs18 
. Several of his plays were lost in the 18th century when a cook in the household of Bishop John Warburton used the manuscripts to line pie dishes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Philip }{\f21\fs18\ul Massinger\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. FTP each, answer these questions concerning the Yangtze River.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This second largest and most populous province of China is located in the Upper Yangtze Valley in Southwest China. Meaning \ldblquote Four Streams\rdblquote , its capital is Ch\rquote eng-tu.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Szechwan}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Ssu-ch\rquote uan}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Sichwan}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
2. For 125 miles, the Yangtze traverses this region in eastern Szechwan and western Hupeh, where the Yangtze attains the greatest depths of any river in the world. This region is famous for the fantastic appearance of its steep limestone slopes and for a m
ajor dam project.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Three Gorges}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Crossing the lower Yangtze, this series of waterways in north China links Hang-chou and Peking. At 1,085 miles long, it is the world\rquote s longest man-made waterway.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Grand Canal}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Ta Yun-Ho}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Da Yunhe}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
3. FTP each, name these types of galaxies.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
1. The three brightest galaxies in the Local Group are of this type, characterized by bright blue arms of stars, gas, and dust that extend from a central hub. If the hub is rectangular or cigar-shaped, then they are called barred types of these galaxies.
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Spiral}{\f21\fs18  galaxies\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. These are galaxies with small, bright nuclei which show broad, strong emission lines. Having active galactic nuclei that produce strong radiation, they are named for the astronomer who described them in 1943.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Seyfert}{\f21\fs18  galaxies\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. Erroneously labeled early-type galaxies, this type of galaxy dominates the inner regions of most rich galaxy clusters and lacks the interstellar dust common in spirals and irregulars. They are also characterized by very red color due to a lack of recent
 star formation.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul elliptical}{\f21\fs18  galaxies \par 
\par 
4. FTP each, name these important mountains in Greek myth.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This central Greek mountain was revered by the ancient Greeks as the abode of Apollo, and Delphi lies on its southern face.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Parnassus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This Boeotian mountain was home to the fountains of Aganippe and Hippocrene.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Helicon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. It was on this mountain, the highest on the island of Crete, that the judgment of Paris took place. In some legends it is also the birthplace of Zeus.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ida}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5. Name these novels by South American authors from brief descriptions, FTP each. If you need the name of the author, you will only receive 5 points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) Molina and Valentin develop a homosexual relationship while spending six months together in prison.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) Manuel Puig\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Kiss of the Spider Woman}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 El }{\i\f21\fs18\ul beso de la mujer arana\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) This 1946 novel is a fictionalization of the assassination of Manuel Estrada Cabrera.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) Miguel Asturias\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul President}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 El }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Se\'96or Presidente}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) This 1982 work, the author's first novel, developed out of a letter to the author's grandfather.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) Isabel Allende (ah-YEN-day)\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul House of the Spirits}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 La }{\i\f21\fs18\ul casa de los espiritus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 6. FTP each, answer the following questions concerning a set of British acts of which the American colonists were not too fond.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This set of 1767 acts included a revenue act which placed import duties on tea, glass, lead, paper, and paint, as well as the American Board of Customs Act and the New York Suspending Act.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Townshend}{\f21\fs18  Acts\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This man attacked the Townshend Acts in his }{\i\f21\fs18 Letters From a Farmer in Pennsylvania}{\f21\fs18 . He later drafted the Olive Branch petition, but opposed the Declaration of Independence and refused to sign it.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Dickenson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. Operating under the American Board of Customs Act, Lieutenant William Dadingston aroused hatred in Narragansett Bay by improperly seizing cargoes using this schooner. When it ran aground in June 1772, angry colonists boarded it, wounded Dudingston, remo
ved the crew, and burned it to the waterline.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: HMS }{\f21\fs18\ul Gaspee}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7. Name these seminal paintings by Picasso, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Rilke called this Rose period painting "a tapestry lost in the universe". In the lower right is a seated woman, while in the left foreground are five circus performers, including Harlequin, who has Picasso's profile.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Family of Saltimbanques}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Inspired by C\'8ezanne's }{\i\f21\fs18 Bathers}{\f21\fs18  series, Picasso completed this painting in 1907. Depicting five women on a shallow, curtained stage with their bodies fractu
red into planes of color, it is sometimes cited as the first work of Cubism.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 Les }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Demoiselles d'Avignon}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Young Women of Avignon}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. Picasso painted 44 variations on this Velasquez court scene, in which the Infanta Margarita, accompanied by the title people, dwarfs, a dog, and other members of the royal household, is being ceremoniously offered a drink of water, while the artist stan
ds at his easel looking towards the viewer.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 Las }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Meninas}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Maids of Honor}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. Identify these terms from chemistry for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This is any atom, radical, or molecule in a complex which is bound to the central atom.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ligand}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Derived from the Greek for \ldblquote crab\rquote s claw\rdblquote , this is a single ligand which occupies more than one coordination position in a coordination compound.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chelate}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul chelating}{\f21\fs18  agent\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) These agents are groups of compounds capable of forming very stable coordination compounds with metalic ions, thus preventing their normal reactions. One of the major uses of chelating agents is to act as these agents.
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul sequestering}{\f21\fs18  agents\par 
\par 
9. FTP each, answer the following questions concerning Buddhism.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This sect, the \ldblquote tradition of the elders,\rdblquote  is the sole survivor of the ancient Hinayana schools, and emphasizes the importance of pure thought and deed.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Theravada}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This branch of Buddhism, the \ldblquote greater vehicle,\rdblquote  includes sects which range from philosophical schools to belief in the saving grace of higher beings or ri
tual practices and to practical meditative disciplines. Zen and Soka-gakkai are included in this branch.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mahayana}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This is the earliest collection of Buddhist scriptures, which includes rules for monastic life and discourses like the }{\i\f21\fs18 Dhammapada}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tripitaka}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 10. In 334 BCE, Alexander the Great began his assault on the Persian empire. FTP each, identify these major battles that resulted.\par 
1. This 334 BCE battle near the Hellespont was the first major battle. Despite having to cross a river during the attack, Alexander\rquote s forces defeated the Persain advance guard.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Granicus}{\f21\fs18  River\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This 333 BCE battle in northern Syria saw the defeat of Persia\rquote s poorly deployed cavalry and infantry. Alexander refused peace terms offered after this battle and continued his march towards Phoenicia.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Issus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Fought near Arbela, in this 331 BCE battle Alexander outmaneuvered and defeated the Persians, forcing Darius III to flee to Hyrcania.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gaugamela}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 11. For the stated number of points, identify these major Japanese verse forms.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) Meaning \ldblquote short poem\rdblquote  and similar to the Waka, this is the classic form of Japanese poetry, and seeks to convey the essence of one event. It is written in 5 lines of 5,7,5,7 and 7 syllables.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tanka}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) This form, whose greatest practitioners included Basho, Buson, and Kobayashi Issa, contrasts a physical image with a phrase suggesting a season or emotion. It is written in 3 lines containing 17 syllables.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Haiku}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) 
Haiku developed for the hakku, the first verse of this form of poetry. Beginning as the composition of a single tanka, it developed into a linked-verse poem, typically 100 verses long, in which two or more poets supplied alternating sections, and its name 
appropriately means \ldblquote linked-verse\rdblquote .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Renga}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. For the stated number of points, name these German philsophers from works.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Phenomenology of Spirit}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Philosophy of Right\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich }{\f21\fs18\ul Hegel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Essence of Christianity}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Ludwig }{\f21\fs18\ul Feuerbach}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Herr Eugen Duhring\rquote s Revolution in Science}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Dialectics of Nature}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Friedrich }{\f21\fs18\ul Engels}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 13. FTP each, answer the following questions concerning chromosomes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. These are chromosomes having the same structural features. In diploid nuclei, pairs of these chromosomes can be identified at the start of meiosis.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Homologous}{\f21\fs18  chromosomes\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. In this phenomenon, homologous chromosomes fail to separate during meiosis, but instead migrate to the same pole of the cell, resulting in an uneven number of chromosomes being present in the daughter cells.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul nondisjunction}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. This is a genetic disorder resulting from nondisjunction. An individual gains an extra chromosome, so that the usual karyotype of XY is replaced by XXY. Symptoms include underdeveloped testes, inferility, and some female characteristics.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kleinfelter's}{\f21\fs18  syndrome\par 
\par 
14. Name these military lines for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) This elaborate defensive 
barrier in northeastern France was constructed in the 1930s as a permanent defense against German attack. Featuring thick concrete walls, heavy guns, and capable of being supported by troops moved underground by rail, it was made useless when Germany simpl
y invaded through Belgium.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Maginot}{\f21\fs18  line\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) This system of pillboxes and strongholds was positioned along the German western frontier in the 1930s. It served as an effective barrier during the German retreat from France in 1944, holding
 out against Allied assaults until the spring of 1945.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Siegfried}{\f21\fs18  line\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This defensive barrier was established by the German army on the western front during World War I
. Shortening their lines and installing pillboxes in support of heavily wired systems of trenches, this line resisted Allied attacks for nearly two years.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hindenburg}{\f21\fs18  line\par 
\par 
15. Name these cool musical instruments, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This is a keyboard instrument with hammers that strike steel plates, producing a tone similar to a glockenspiel.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul celesta}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Named for a Russian engineer, this is a purely melodic electronic instrument typically played by moving a hand between two projecting electrodes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul theremin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Although not typically used as a musical instrument, this percussion instrument is used in a famous act II chorus in }{\i\f21\fs18 Il trovatore}{\f21\fs18 , while Wagner called for 18 of them to be used in }{\i\f21\fs18 Das Rheingold}
{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul anvil}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 16. FTP each, name these American authors who all jumped to their deaths.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This author of \ldblquote At Melville\rquote s Tomb\rdblquote  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Bridge}{\f21\fs18 
 jumped overboard from the ship that was returning him from Mexico, where he had been researching a poem on the Cortez-Montezuma story.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Hart }{\f21\fs18\ul Crane}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This poet known for }{\i\f21\fs18 Homage to Mistress Bradstreet}{\f21\fs18  jumped off a bridge into the Mississippi River.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Berryman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Sometimes the jumper is fictional. In this author\rquote s novel }{\i\f21\fs18 Martin Eden}{\f21\fs18 
, the title character realizes the hollowness of his pursuit of respectability through writing and jumps overboard into the South Seas.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jack }{\f21\fs18\ul London}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. Answer the following questions about U.S. history, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This trail from Fort Laramie was established in late 1862 to provide a direct route from the east to the newly discovered gold mines of western Montana.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bozeman}{\f21\fs18  trail\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. When establishing his trail, Bozeman was either unaware or unconcerned that the 
trail cut through reserved Native American lands. This chief of the Oglala Teton Sioux led the Sioux and Cheyenne in resisting the construction of the trail, and by 1867 forced the US to withdraw from the region.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Red Cloud}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Mahpiua Luta}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Red Cloud was able to close the Bozeman trail in December 1866 by instigating a massacre at this fort near the Platte River named for a leader in the Mexican War.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Fort }{\f21\fs18\ul Kearny}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. FTP each, name these psychological terms.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In this process, a neutral stimulus is repeatedly paired with a reinforcer, until the neutral stimulus elicits a responce. A famous example concerns a dog which salivates when a bell is rung.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul classical}{\f21\fs18  conditioning or }{\f21\fs18\ul Pavlovian}{\f21\fs18  conditioning or }{\f21\fs18\ul Type-S}{\f21\fs18  conditioning\par 
2. In classical conditioning, this term refers to behavior elicited by a specific, known stimulus.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul respondent}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. The opposite of respondent, this term denotes a response defined in terms of its effects on the environment. It is studied by a system of conditioning developed by B.F. Skinner.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul operant}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. FTP each name these types of particle accelerators.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
1. Consisting of a large metal, dome-shaped terminal mounted on a hollow, insulating support, charge is sprayed by point discharges from metal needles onto the bottom of an insulating belt; a row of needles near the belt pulley then passes the charge to th
e outer surface.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Van de Graaff}{\f21\fs18  generator\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. In this device, charged particles fed into the center are accelerated in an outward spiral inside two hollow D-shaped conductors. Accelerated each time they reach the gap between the D\rquote 
s, a deflecting field directs the particles onto a target when they reach the perimeter of the D\rquote s.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cyclotron}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This device accelerates particles in closed orbits by radio-frequency fields. The motion of the particles is automatically corrolated with a rising magnetic field to keep the particles in a constant orbit.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul synchrotron\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 20. FTP each, name these people and places found in the poetry of Robert Burns.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This sweetheart is believed to have been a woman named Campbell who died in 1788. She was the subject of many of Burns' poems, including "Thou Ling'ring Star".\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Highland }{\f21\fs18\ul Mary}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This witch found in }{\i\f21\fs18 Tam O'Shanter}{\f21\fs18  has a name meaning "short skirt". The name is now used to describe short, plump women.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Cutty }{\f21\fs18\ul Sark}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Tam O'Shanter escapes from Cutty Sark by riding across a bridge spanning this Scottish river featured in many of Burns' poems.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Doon\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 If you've been playing this gam
e for any length of time then you can probably string together the words long, rump, and barebones in your sleep. FTP each, let's find out how much you know of things associated with these English parliaments.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
1. Abolished by the Long Parliament in 1641, this civil and criminal court was primarily concerned with offenses affecting crown interests. Unpopular for its summary and arbitrary decisions, it often sat in a certain room in the Palace of Westminster, givi
ng it its name.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Star Chamber}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. On December 6, 1648, over 100 pro-Charles members of the Long Parliament were forcibly removed from the House of Commons by this army coup, leading to the formation of the Rump parliament.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pride's Purge}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. Unable to work with the Barebones Parliament, Oliver Cromwell engineered the inauguration of this period of English history running from December 16, 1653 until May 25, 1659, during which Cromwell and his son Richard served as virtual monarchs. Its fall
 led to the Restoration.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: English }{\f21\fs18\ul Protectorate}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}}