{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 endnote text;}{\s2 \fs20 \sbasedon222\snext2 Word4095Null;}{\s3 \ul \sbasedon0\snext3 
Heading 11;}{\s4 \fs20 \sbasedon222\snext4 Default Paragraph Font1;}{\s5\ri2160\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 \f22 \sbasedon0\snext5 Body Text;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}}
\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx9360 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\b\f21\fs18 Tossups by Maryland A (Shaun Hayeslip, John Nam, Julie Singer)\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
1. The protagonist of this novel first appears as a 15-year-old in Kansas city, where he is embarrassed by his preaching parents Asa and Elvira. After his sister Esta runs a
way he works as a soda jerk, then as a bellboy at the Green-Davidson hotel. His affair with Hortense Briggs and a hit-and-run in a stolen car lead him to flee to Chicago, and later to his uncle's collar factory in New York, where he meets the wealthy Sondr
a Finchley and the poor Roberta Alden, whom he impregnates and murders. FTP, this is the story of Clyde Griffiths, the main character of what bleak novel by Theodore Drieser? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 An }{\i\f21\fs18\ul American Tragedy}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on Clyde }{\f21\fs18\ul Griffiths}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
2. In 1958 this entity
 paid $64.8 million to the shareholders of the Universal Suez Canal Company. Two years later it formed its first parliament, with representatives from the two constituent nations. Vice President Nureddin Kuhalla and his country seceded from the union in 19
61, but despite a failed attempt at reunification with Syria and Iraq, the remaining country continued to use this name until 1971. FTP what was this short-lived confederation of Egypt and Syria headed by Gamel-Abdul Nasser?\par 
\tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul United Arab Republic}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

3. Born in Belfast, this Irish physicist was a professor at Owens College for over 30 years beginning in 1868. In one study he made a model of the mouth of the river Mersey, and he also worked on the determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat in mu
lti-stage steam turbines. Using dye, he determined that the flow of a liquid will be turbulent unless it has high viscosity, low density, and an open surface. FTP, name the physicist whose namesake number determines whether fluid flow will be smooth or
 turbulent.\par 
\tab Answer: Osborne }{\f21\fs18\ul Reynolds}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Giovanni Bologna did a statue of this title which was set in marble in 1583 in the Loggia dei Lanzi. In the better known painting of the name, an elderly woman appears at the center who would later serve as the model for a figure in Delacroix\rquote s 
}{\i\f21\fs18 Massacre at Chios}{\f21\fs18 . A man robed in orange looks on the action from the upper left, while the grouping of a woman with left arm extended, grabbed around the waist by a man, is repeated 6 times from different angles in the paint
ing. FTP, what is this 1636 work, which depicts a famous abduction from early Roman history, by Nicolas Poussin?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rape of the Sabines}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 The}{\f21\fs18  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rape of the Sabine Women}{\f21\fs18  (accept equivalents)\par 
\par 

5. He played college hockey at the University of Minnesota-Duluth before being selected by Calgary Flames in the 6th round of the 1984 NHL draft, but he was traded on March 7, 1988 with Steve Bozek for Rob Ramage and Rick Wamsley. He is more than 120 goals
 ahead of Jaromir Jagr as the most prolific goal-scorer 
of the 1990s, and on December 31, 1999, he became the 12th man in NHL history to score 600 career goals, doing so in 900 games, the third-fastest to reach that milestone.  FTP, name this ex-St. Louis Blues and current Dallas Stars player, son of the 
\ldblquote Golden Jet\rdblquote  and a member of the only father-son combination to score 600 career goals.\par 
\tab Answer: Brett }{\f21\fs18\ul Hull}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. Originally, this organism was grouped with viruses in the class Microtatobiotes but is now considered a member of the phylum Omnibacteria. Similar to 
bacteria in internal structure, they share the viral traits of only being able to reproduce within animal cells and, as a result, many are pathogenic to mammals, birds and occasionally reptiles. Nearly every species uses one or more species of arthropods a
s carriers; ticks are the most common but fleas and lice may also harbor them. FTP, name this microorganism, the cause of the human diseases typhus, Q fever, and Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Rickettsia}{\f21\fs18 (e)\par 
\par 
7. Born on July 4, 1776, he first gained a reputation for being seasick while at anchor at Spithead. He soon transferred to the }{\i\f21\fs18 Indefatiguable}{\f21\fs18 
, serving under Sir Edmund Pellew as a midshipman. His first command as a captain was the }{\i\f21\fs18 Atropos}{\f21\fs18 , which served as the flagship of the funeral procession for Admiral Nelson that he organized. Later, he commanded the frigate }{
\i\f21\fs18 Lydia}{\f21\fs18  in the Pacific and the ship of the line }{\i\f21\fs18 Sutherland}{\f21\fs18  in the Mediterranean, before marrying Lady Barbara Wellesley after the death of his first wife, Maria. FTP, name this fictional n
aval hero of the Napoleonic Wars, created by C. S. Forester.\par 
\tab Answer: Horatio }{\f21\fs18\ul Hornblower}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

8. Located at the north outlet of Lake George, this site, on the main route between Canada and the upper Hudson Valley, was of strategic importance to the French, who built Fort Carillon there in 1755. When it was captured by the British four years later, 
it was given the name by which it is best known today, an Iroquois word meaning \ldblquote Between Two Waters.\rdblquote  After recapturing it during the 1777 campaign, the British aband
oned it after the Battle of Saratoga. FTP, name this fort, which was captured in a surprise attack by Ethan Allen\rquote s Green Mountain Boys on May 10, 1775.\tab \par 
\tab Answer: Fort }{\f21\fs18\ul Ticonderoga}{\f21\fs18  (accept Fort }{\f21\fs18\ul Carillon}{\f21\fs18  if given early)\par 
\par 
9. Samuel Taylor Coleridge declared its plot, along with those of }{\i\f21\fs18 Oedipus Rex}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Tom Jones}{\f21\fs18 
, to be one of the three most perfect in existence. Because of plague, Master Lovewit has left the city. His butler Jeremy, known as Face to his underworld friends, invites his cohorts to use Lovewit\rquote s 
unoccupied home as a base of operations for their rascally activities. Their victims include Dapper, Abel Drugger, and Tribulation Wholesome, who is searching for the philosopher\rquote 
s stone. Finally, their schemes are exposed by Pertinax Surly, friend to a wo
uld-be victim, Sir Epicure Mammon. FTP, name this 1610 Ben Jonson play which also featured the prostitute Doll Common and the swindler Subtle, who pretended to have the titular career.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Alchemist}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. The 1887 invention of gunpowder flash facilitated this man's most famous work, which was inspired by the work of John Thomson. His other works include }{\i\f21\fs18 The Children of the Poor}{\f21\fs18  and the autobiography }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Making of an American}{\f21\fs18 , which details his childhood in Denmark and his work as a New York reporter. FTP name this photojournalist who brought about the elimination of the Mulberry Bend slum with photos such as \ldblquote Bandits Roost,
\rdblquote  published in his 1890 book }{\i\f21\fs18 How the Other Half Lives}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Jacob }{\f21\fs18\ul Riis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11. During his tenure as the director of the observat
ory at Gottingen, he introduced methods of precision photometry using photographic plates and the use of coarse gratings for determining stellar magnitude and color. It was in the area of general relativity that he gained more fame, however, as he found th
e first exact solution to Einstein\rquote 
s field equations for a stationary, isolated spherically-symmetric mass. This metric bears his name today and demonstrates that bodies of sufficiently large mass and small radius have an escape velocity exceeding the spee
d of light. FTP, name this scientist, the namesake of the radius which defines the event horizon for a black hole.\par 
\tab Answer: Karl }{\f21\fs18\ul Schwarzchild}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1}{\f21\fs18 2. It begins with the line, "O}{\f21\fs18 
n August 16, 1968, I was handed a book written by a certain Abbe Vallet," which claimed to reproduce a 14th century manuscript composed by Adso of Melk. Adso serves as an apprentice and scribe to a visiting Franciscan and student of Roger Bacon named Willi
am of Baskerville. The mystery takes place in a French monastery with a forbidde
n library, cryptic Aedificium, and a supposedly lost treatise on comedy by Aristotle. FTP, name this novel, which contains large chunks of untranslated Latin, a work of Umberto Eco.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Name of the Rose}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

13. Its population consisted of Soninke clans of Mande-speaking people who acted as intermediaries between the Arab and Berber traders of salt to the north and the producers of gold and ivory to the south. Called Wagadu by its rulers, it derived its more f
amiliar name from the king\rquote s title of warlo
rd. It had become rich and powerful by 800, but in 1240 its capital was occupied by Sundiata, who incorporated it into his new and greater empire of Mali. FTP, name this first of the great medieval trading empires of West Africa, which flourished during be
tween the 9th and 13th centuries and whose name survives today in the modern country whose capital is Accra.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ghana}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. He published }{\i\f21\fs18 Architeles}{\f21\fs18  in 1522, the same year he secretly married Anna Reinhart. Three years later, he published his }{\i\f21\fs18 Commentary on True and False Religion}{\f21\fs18 
, which repudiated original sin and claimed that Socrates had been inspired by the Holy Spirit, and at the Marburg Colloquy four years later he had a famous disagreement over the Lord's Supper, claiming that Christ was only signified, while Luther insisted
 on his physical presence. FTP, name this theologian, who led the Swiss Reformation until his death at the battle of Kappel in 1531.\par 
\tab Answer: Huldreich (or Ulrich) }{\f21\fs18\ul Zwingli}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. With scientific name }{\i\f21\fs18 Sarcophilus harrisii}{\f21\fs18 , it is ab
out the size of a small badger with brown or black fur except for the white throat region. Widely distributed throughout the continent until being displaced by the dingo, it stays in burrows during the day and emerges at night to prey on rodents, lizards, 
wallabies, and other small animals. FTP, name this largest carnivorous marsupial, now confined to the island for which it is named and to various Warner Brothers cartoons.\par 
\tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Tasmanian Devil}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. His first philosophical publication was 1936's }{\i\f21\fs18 The Transcendence of the Ego}{\f21\fs18 
, in which he argued that Husserl had failed in his attempt to bracket off the world from the sphere of pure consciousness. His later works in phenomenological psychology include the }{\i\f21\fs18 Sketch for a Theory of the Emotions}{\f21\fs18  and }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Psychology of Imagination}{\f21\fs18 , after which he moved on to phenomenological ontology, as is reflected in the subtitle of his 1943 work }{\i\f21\fs18 Being and Nothingness}{\f21\fs18 
. FTP, name this philosopher, who on the grounds that commitment can be undermined by homage declined the 1964 Nobel Prize in Literature.\par 
\tab Answer: Jean-Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Sartre\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
17. His first two plays, }{\i\f21\fs18 No-Good Friday}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Nongogo}{\f21\fs18 , were published in 1977, along with }{\i\f21\fs18 Dimetos}{\f21\fs18 . His }{\i\f21\fs18 The Island}{\f21\fs18 
 was developed in collaboration with the actors who played the leading roles, John Kani and Winston Ntshona. }{\i\f21\fs18 Hello and Goodbye}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Boesman and Lena}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Blood Knot}{\f21\fs18 
 form a trilogy dealing with family relationships in and around Port Elizabeth, his hometown and the setting of most of his plays. FTP, name this South African playwright, whose other works include }{\i\f21\fs18 Master Harold...and the Boys}{\f21\fs18 
 and }{\i\f21\fs18 Sizwe Bansi Is Dead}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Athol }{\f21\fs18\ul Fugard}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. Schonberg wrote two of them, }{\i\f21\fs18 Ode to Napoleon}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Survivor from Warsaw}{\f21\fs18 , and William Walton's }{\i\f21\fs18 Belshazzar's Feast}{\f21\fs18 
 is another example of this type of composition. The form was created by Giacomo Carissimi, and became a favorite of Schutz and Buxtehude, while Handel wrote a number of the secular variety, including }{\i\f21\fs18 Alexander's Feast}{\f21\fs18  and }{
\i\f21\fs18 Acis and Galatea}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, identify this musical form, which is a scaled-down version of the oratorio, hundreds of which were written by Johann Sebastian Bach.\par 
\tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul cantata}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

19. The son of a devout Catholic secondary schoolmaster, he received a diploma in agriculture after World War I and worked as a poultry farmer. He served as flag bearer in the abortive Beer Hall Putsch, and thereafter rose steadily in the Nazi party, in 19
29 becoming head of Hitler\rquote s elite bodyguard, the Schutzstaffel. FTP, name this man, who eventually became the Nazi minster of the interior, commander of the Gestapo, and, in 1944, commander-in-chief of the armed forces.\tab \par 
\tab Answer: Heinrich }{\f21\fs18\ul Himmler}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s5\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 \f22 {\f21\fs18 
20. Although particle physicists and cosmologists are 120 orders of magnitude apart on what its value should be, a positive value would almost guarantee the eventual heat-death of the universe. Generally modeled as scale independent energy due to vacuum fl
uctuations in space-time, it was originally included in the field equations for general relativity in order to make the universe static. FTP, name this constant, recently back in vogue in cosmological circles and Einstein\rquote s greatest mistake.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cosmological}{\f21\fs18  Constant\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
1. In this war, the British, led by Sir William Phips, captured Port Royal and Acadia, but failed to take Quebec. Under the comte de Frontenac, the French and their allied Indian forces carried out successful attacks on Schenectady, Salmon Falls, and Casco
 Bay, but failed to take their main target, Boston. FTP, these events took place during what conflict, the North American extension of the War of the Grand Alliance?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul King William}{\f21\fs18 's War\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
2. He is usually held to be the son of Apollo and a Muse, perhaps Calliope, though some accounts make him the son of Dionysus and Aphrodite, which would make him a god of fruitfulness. In Attic legend, however, he was a beautiful youth who rescued a group 
of women from a band of pirates, and as a reward he obtained one of the women in marriage. His happy married life caused him ever after
 to be invoked in the refrain of the Greek marriage song, and he came to be known by the name of that refrain. FTP, name this figure from Greek mythology, whose name also applies to the membrane that nearly closes the opening to the vagina in some mammals.
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hymen}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Hymenaeus}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. It is mainly obtained in the form of impurities in sulphide ores, which can be roasted to create an oxide which is then reduced to yield the metallic form, and from the minerals realgar and orpiment. It is used in lead-b
ased alloys to produce hardening, and its compounds are used as doping agents in semiconductors and in insecticides, while several complex organic compounds containing it are employed in the treatment of certain diseases, such as amebic dysentery, caused b
y microorganisms. FTP, name this element, which may have been first isolated around 1250 by Albertus Magnus, a metalloid of group V with atomic number 33 and symbol As.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul arsenic}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
He was trained in his early years by his father, but when it became c
lear that he was a prodigy of Mozartean dimensions, a group of noblemen paid for his family to go to Vienna, where he studied piano with the famed technician Czerny and composition with Antonio Salieri. Later in life, he claimed that he played for Beethove
n, who rewarded him with a kiss, but this is probably untrue as Beethoven was stone-deaf by that time. At 13, his one-act opera }{\i\f21\fs18 Don Sanche}{\f21\fs18 
 was performed to some acclaim, but he withdrew the score and never tried the stage again. Thus was the early life, FTP, of what Hungarian composer and virtuoso pianist, known for his }{\i\f21\fs18 Faust}{\f21\fs18  symphony and for the symphonic poem }{
\i\f21\fs18 Les Preludes}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
Answer: Franz LISZT\par 
\par 

The nephew of a founder of the Heidelburg Romantic school, he was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1864, but religious doubts, exacerbated by the dogma of papal infallibility, led to his resignation from the priesthood in 1873. He then began writing one
 of his best-known works, in which he called for a psychology that would be a science of the soul--not limited to
 experimental, physiological study but based rather on the rational analysis of human experience. FTP, name this German philosopher, author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Psychologie vom empirischen Standpunkte}{\f21\fs18  (\ldblquote 
Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint\rdblquote ), generally regarded as the founder of act psychology, or intentionalism.\par 
}{\f21\fs18 Answer: Franz BRENTANO}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Maryland\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
1. For the stated number of points, answer these questions about Mongol rule in China.\par 
1. (15 points) This grandson of Genghis Khan, son of Tului and a Nestorian woman, became Khan in 1251 and banned Taoism.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mongka}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (5 points) This brother of Mongka was elected khan by his own army in 1260, though he only adopted the dynastic title from 1271 to 1294.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kublai}{\f21\fs18  Khan\par 
3. (10 points) This dynasty, in power from 1260 to 1368, was founded with the accession of Kubla Khan.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Yuan\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. FTP each, given a brief description, name these things associated with the tides.\par 
1. A wave of water that advances as an abrupt, turbulent wall up a river or estuary during flood tides, noted ones occur in the Amazon River, the River Severn in England, and the Bay of Fundy.\par 
\tab Answer: tidal }{\f21\fs18\ul bore}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This is the term for erosion of a seacoast resulting from tidal action.\par 
\tab Answer: tidal }{\f21\fs18\ul scour}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. It is the level muddy surface bordering an estuary, alternately submerged and exposed to the air by changing tidal levels.\par 
\tab Answer: tidal }{\f21\fs18\ul flat}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
3. Identify these works by Sir Walter Scott FTP each.\par 
1. This novel is set just before the Jacobite rebellion of 1715 and concerns Francis Obaldistone, who is aided by the titular outlaw in his attempts to win Diana Vernon.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rob Roy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Set in Scotland at the time of George III, the title character is a student of astrology who predicts two crises in the life of Harry Bertram, aka Captain Brown, who ends up marrying his daughter Julia.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Guy Mannering}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Subtitled "A Tale of Flodden Field," the title character of this poem rejects his betrothed Constance while attempting to woo Lady Clare.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Marmion}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Given the source on which it is based, name the opera FTP each. If you need the name of the composer, you will only receive 5 points.\par 
1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Le Roi s\rquote amuse}{\f21\fs18  by Victor Hugo\par 
(5 points) Giuseppe Verdi\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rigoletto}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Angelo, le Tyran de Padoue}{\f21\fs18  by Victor Hugo\par 
(5 points) Amilcare Ponchielli\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 La }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Gioconda}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Borough}{\f21\fs18  by George Crabbe\par 
(5 points) Benjamin Britten\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Peter Grimes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \par 
5. Answer the following about the pioneers of non-Euclidean geometry for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard\plain \s5\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 \f22 {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) Developed in 1854, this German\rquote 
s triply extended manifold allowed for the meaningful measurement of distance in a curved space.\par 
\tab Answer: Georg Friedrich-Bernard }{\f21\fs18\ul Riemann}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) Three decades earlier, Riemann\rquote 
s institution was home to these two mathematicians, one a Hungarian and the other Russian, each of whom developed systems of geometry independent of Euclid\rquote s parallel axiom. Name one for 5 points and both for 15 points.\par 
\tab Answer: Nicolay }{\f21\fs18\ul Lobachevsky}{\f21\fs18  and Janos }{\f21\fs18\ul Bolyai}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) For a final 10 points, name the university common to Riemann, Lobachevsky and Bolyai, as well as Carl Friedrich Gauss.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gottingen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. FTP each, given the date and a description, identify these treaties associated with the Panama Canal.\par 
1. April 19, 1850; Britain and the US guarantee the neutrality of the proposed canal.\par 
\tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Clayton-Bulwer}{\f21\fs18  Treaty\par 
2. November 18, 1901; Britain cedes to the US the sole right of construction, maintenance, and control of the canal.\par 
\tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Hay-Pauncefote}{\f21\fs18  Treaty\par 
3. November 18, 1903; The new Panamanian government grants the US rights to a five-mile-wide zone on each side of the canal.\par 
\tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Hay-Bunau-Varilla}{\f21\fs18  Treaty\par 
\par 
7. Given a brief description, name these \ldblquote tragic\rdblquote  works FTP each.\par 
1. This Thomas Kyd drama deals with political intrigue between Iberian nations that explodes in the murder of Horatio, son of the marshal Hieronimo.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Spanish Tragedy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Written in 1607 by Cyril Tourneur, this Senecan tragedy tells of the vengeance taken by Vendice upon a duke who had poisoned Vendice\rquote s mistress when she refused his advances.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Revenger's Tragedy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. In this 1611 play by Beaumont and Fletcher, Amintor is forced to marry Evadne, who has been the king\rquote s mistress; he kills his beloved Aspatia in a duel while she is disguised as Evadne\rquote 
s brother Melantius, and he kills himself after he discovers this fact.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Maid's Tragedy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. For the stated number of points, name these artists who did works entitled }{\i\f21\fs18 The Kiss}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
1. (5 points) His marble version was based on figures originally found in his never completed ensemble }{\i\f21\fs18 The Gates of Hell}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Auguste }{\f21\fs18\ul Rodin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) His version, executed in 1909, stands in the Montparnasse (mon-par-NASS) Cemetery, Paris, above the tomb of T. Rachevskaia.\par 
\tab Answer: Constantin }{\f21\fs18\ul Brancusi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) In his version, finished in 1908, the angular figures, engulfed in mosaic-like robes that create an illusion of rich beauty, steal a moment of passion whose beauty emphasizes their joyless existence.\par 
\tab Answer: Gustave }{\f21\fs18\ul Klimt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
9. Answer these questions about a member of the Hindu trinity FTP each.\par 
1. He was often portrayed as sleeping in the coils of the cobra Sesa. The Vaisnava sect worships him as the supreme deity.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vishnu}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Although Vishnu also married Bhumi, the goddess of the earth, his best known wife was this goddess of fortune, who was also known as Padma and Kamala.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lakshmi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Vishnu\rquote s retinue included two animals: an eagle that also served as his steed, and the king of the monkeys. Name either of them for a final ten points.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Garuda}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Hanuman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. Identify these containers commonly found in a laboratory FTP each.\par 
1. A shallow, circular, flat-bottomed dish with a fitting lid, it is used for culturing bacteria.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Petri}{\f21\fs18  Dish\par 
2. A porcelain dish with a perforated base over which a layer of paper is placed, it can be used for filtration in gravimetric analysis.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gooch}{\f21\fs18  crucible (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Gooch}{\f21\fs18  filter)\par 
3. A conical glass container with a flat bottom, it is widely used in titration as it is easily cleaned, stood, stoppered and swirled.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Erlenmeyer}{\f21\fs18  flask\par 
\par 
11. Identify the ancient city, 30-20-10.\par 

1. Located south of the present city of Soke, Turkey, it was inhabited by Carians before the Greek city was founded by Neleus and his followers from Pylos. It lay on the Aegean coast, at the mouth of the rich valley of the Maeander River, but by the 6th ce
ntury AD its harbor had silted up and the site was abandoned.\par 
2. It played an important role in the founding of the Greek colony of Naukratis in Egypt, and it founded more than 60 colonies on the shores of the Black Sea, including Abydos and Sinope. Around 499 BC, it led the \ldblquote Ionian Revolt\rdblquote 
 that marked the beginning of the wars between Greece and Persia.\par 
3. In addition to its commerce and colonization, this city was distinguished for its literary and philosophical figures, including Hecataeus, Anaximander, Anaximenes, and Thales.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Miletus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. Given works, name the philosopher on a 15-5 basis.\par 
1. (15 points) His collection of essays }{\i\f21\fs18 Pathmarks}{\f21\fs18 , which includes "On the Essence of Ground" and "Plato's Doctrine of Being," was recently published in English.\par 
(5 points) He is better known for 1927's }{\i\f21\fs18 Being and Time}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Martin }{\f21\fs18\ul Heidegger}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (15 points) His works include 1851's }{\i\f21\fs18 Parerga und Paralipomena}{\f21\fs18 , an essay collection on various topics.\par 
(5 points) He is better known for }{\i\f21\fs18 The World as Will and Representation}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Arthur }{\f21\fs18\ul Schopenhauer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. Identify these works by Maurice Ravel FTP each.\par 
1. In 1928, dancer Ida Rubenstein asked Ravel to orchestrate some piano music of Isaac Albeniz; instead he produced this score.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bolero}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. At the same time that Stravinsky was working on }{\i\f21\fs18 The Rite of Spring}{\f21\fs18 , Ravel was working on this ballet, based on a classical romance by Longus, which was also commissioned by Sergei Diaghilev.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Daphnis and Chloe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Ravel wrote only two operas, the first of which was entitled }{\i\f21\fs18 The Spanish Hour}{\f21\fs18 . Name the second, in which a spoiled brat abuses household objects until they suddenly come to life.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 L'}{\i\f21\fs18\ul enfant et les sortileges}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Child and the Spells}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. }{\f21\fs18  Identify these men who all have something in common, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This Welshman founded the British Psycho-Analytical Society and wrote the first authoritative biography of Freud, as well as a study of }{\i\f21\fs18 Hamlet and Oedipus}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Ernest }{\f21\fs18\ul Jones}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This Welsh poet converted to Roman Catholicism in 1921, an experience which is reflected in his best known works, }{\i\f21\fs18 In Parenthesis}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Anathemata}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul David Jones}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. He's not Welsh, but this evangelist did break away from the Methodist church in 1939 to found a more fundamentalist sect. He wrote a pamphlet called "Is Segregation Scriptural?" -- the answer, he said, was "Yes" -- but is better known for his namesake u
niversity, which is now located in Greenville, South Carolina.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bob Jones}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\f21\fs18 15. }{\f21\fs18 Identify these ancient astronomers for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) In 1543, Copernicus rejected the geocentric theory of this Greek, who died in 180 AD.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ptolemy}{\f21\fs18  (or Claudius }{\f21\fs18\ul Ptolemaus}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2. (10 points) In 260 BC, he put forward the first heliocentric theory, which placed the sun at the center of the system of the six planets then known, with the stars infinitely distant.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Aristarchus}{\f21\fs18  of Samos\par 
3. (15 points) This native of Pontus from the 4th century BC noted that the apparent motion of the stars might result from the daily rotation of the Earth.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Heraklides}{\f21\fs18  of Pontus\par 
\par 
1}{\f21\fs18 6}{\f21\fs18 . Since the year is now over, we now know who ranked where in ESPN\rquote s Sports Century poll. For 10 points each, answer the following about the results of that poll.\par 
1. Michael Jordan was the #1 athlete according to the poll. What man was the next-highest ranked NBA player, at #13?\par 
\tab Answer: Wilt }{\f21\fs18\ul Chamberlain}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Babe Ruth was the #2 athlete. Who was the next highest ranked major league baseball player, at #8?\par 
\tab Answer: Willie }{\f21\fs18\ul Mays}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Jim Brown was the top NFL player, at #4. The next NFL player was all the way down at #25. Name this quarterback.\par 
\tab Answer: Joe }{\f21\fs18\ul Montana\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
1}{\f21\fs18 7}{\f21\fs18 . Given brief descriptions, name these European alliances for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This organization was formed by north German towns and German commercial groups abroad to defend their mutual trading interests; it was an important economic and political force in Europe from the 13th to the 15th centuries.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hanseatic League}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) Lasting from 1806 until 1813, this union of all the German states, except Austria and Prussia, under the aegis of Napoleon, allowed France to dominate the area until Napoleon\rquote s downfall.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Confederation of the Rhine}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Rhinebund}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
3. (15 points) This Scandinavian union formed in June of 1397 brought the kingdoms of Norway, Sweden and Denmark under a single monarch until 1523.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kalmar}{\f21\fs18  Union (accept equivalents like \ldblquote Union of Kalmar\rdblquote )\par 
\par 
1}{\f21\fs18 8}{\f21\fs18 . There\rquote s never enough Australian literature questions. Given brief descriptions, name these Australian authors for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) Though she\rquote s concentrated recently on books on the lives of famous Romans, she is probably best known for her 1977 novel }{\i\f21\fs18 The Thorn Birds}{\f21\fs18 
, a multigenerational saga of life, love and death on an Australian sheep ranch. \par 
\tab Answer: Colleen }{\f21\fs18\ul McCullough}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) Best known for his 1957 novel }{\i\f21\fs18 Voss}{\f21\fs18 , this man won the 1973 Novel Prize in Literature.\par 
\tab Answer: Patrick [Victor Martindale] }{\f21\fs18\ul White}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) This man\rquote s only novel, }{\i\f21\fs18 Such is Life}{\f21\fs18 , appeared in 1903 when he was 60. Though it got little attention, it proved to be the start of a 
realistic trend in Australian writing, and it has come to be recognized as one of the best frontier novels in English. A popular drink may or may not have been named after his pseudonym. \par 
\tab Answer: Joseph }{\f21\fs18\ul Furphy}{\f21\fs18  (or Tom }{\f21\fs18\ul Collins}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
1}{\f21\fs18 9}{\f21\fs18 . Answer these questions about a bad monetary decision, for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (10 points) This was issued on July 11, 1836, and required payment in gold or silver for purchases of government lands.\par 
\tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Specie Circular}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (5 points) The Specie Circular was issued by this President.\par 
\tab Answer: Andrew }{\f21\fs18\ul Jackson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) It was this man, Jackson's treasury secretary, who came up with the bright idea of the Specie Circular.\par 
\tab Answer: Levi }{\f21\fs18\ul Woodbury}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 20}{\f21\fs18 . How well do you know your capitals? Here\rquote s a chance to show off your knowledge of the capitals...of Japan. Given the name of a Japanese prefecture, name its capital FTP each.\par 
1. Hyogo\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kobe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Kanagawa\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Yokohama}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Hokkaido\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sapporo\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080 {\f21\fs18 On a 15-5 basis, given descriptions of literary works, give the title shared by them.\par 
1. (15 points) On Valentine\rquote s Day various suitors, including John Clay, Justice Preamble, and Pol Martin, vie for the hand of Awdrey in this 1633 comedy by Ben Jonson, the last play Jonson staged.\par 
(5 points) The sons Peter, Martin, and Jack represent the Catholic, Anglican, and Calvinist churches in this 1696 prose satire by Jonathan Swift.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tale of a Tub}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (15 points) In this poem Archibald Macleish claims his work to be silent as the sleeve-worn stone Of casement ledges where the moss has grown.\par 
(5 points) It is literally a treatise on the art of poetry or poetics; the name is given to a poem written circa 20 BC by Horace, setting forth his precepts for the art of poetry.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ars Poetica}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Never say ACF doesn\rquote t ask about current events. For the stated number of points, answer these questions about events that took place on December 31, 1999 or January 1, 2000.\par 
1. (15 points) The Republic of Fiji was the first nation to celebrate the arrival of the year 2000 because they possess this island, which straddles the International Date Line.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Taveuni}{\f21\fs18  Island\par 
}\pard \tx9360 {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) Although he may have concerns about Aceh and recently seceded East Timor, this man, Indonesia\rquote s new president, has to worry about violence in this area, located 1,500 miles east of 
Jakarta, where five days of violence prior to the new year resulted in more than 350 deaths. For 5 points for one or 15 for both, name Indonesia\rquote s current president and this area of Maluku province.}{\f21\fs18 \tab \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx9360 {\f21\fs18 \tab }{\f21\fs18 Answer: Abdurrahman }{\f21\fs18\ul Wahid}{\f21\fs18  and the }{\f21\fs18\ul Spice}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
}}