{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f20\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext1 Word4095Null;}{\s2 \f20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Body Text;}{\s3 \f20 \sbasedon0\snext3 
Body Text 2;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\b\f21\fs18 Tossups by University of Michigan A (Ezequiel "Hit Man" Berdichevsky, Michael Davidson, Noel Erinjeri, and David Goodman)\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. Late in his career he worked on a commission for the Boston Public Library to execute murals on a history of Jewish and Christian religions. After 1910 he began to paint Alpine and Italian landscapes such as }{\i\f21\fs18 
Mountain Fire}{\f21\fs18 . His most popular work at the time of its release was a study of two little girls lighting Japanese lanterns: }{\i\f21\fs18 Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose}{\f21\fs18 
. But his most famed work was executed during his time as a fashionable portraitist and depicts a Mrs. Gautreau striking a sensual pose. FTP identify this Italian born American painter of }{\i\f21\fs18 Madame X}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: John Singer }{\f21\fs18\ul Sargent}{\i\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. Late in his career he became invo
lved in the study of lightning, and in his studies of thunderstorms, he devised a method of protecting British wartime barrage balloons from lightning. But his most famous work involved another meteorological phenomenon which he harnessed as a detecting me
dium for radiation, in which a supersaturated vapor that condenses to tiny liquid droplets around ions produces a readable indicator by the passage of energetic charged particles. FTP identify this Scottish scientist and inventor of the cloud chamber.
\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Charles Thomson Rees }{\f21\fs18\ul Wilson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. The title character of this novel is addressed as Colonel throughout the book, and feels guilt for an event that took place during the Civil War but 
threatens to ruin him by the end of the novel. The novel begins with an interview by one of the author\rquote 
s recurring characters, the journalist Bartley Hubbard, who writes a piece about a self-made millionaire from Vermont who deals in paint. When he finds out that a local Bostonian dilettante, Tom Corey, has fallen in love with one of his daught
ers he decides to build a new house on Beacon Hill. FTP identify this 1885 novel about a man who loses all his wealth but regains his soul, written by William Dean Howells.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rise of Silas Lapham\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 
4. Basing his political career on the Count of Monte Cristo, he would be undone by the vengeful son-in-law of the thwarted Judge David Pavy. Expelled from high-school, he dropped out of Oklahoma University but passed the bar despite spending less than one 
year at law school. Using the highly publicized U
rania Lumber Case, he propelled himself onto his state's Railroad Commission in 1918, and as Public Service Commissioner he built a political following by attacking the established hierarchy, advocating old-age pensions, statewide building projects, and na
tional minimum and maximum incomes. FTP, identify this Louisiana demagogue, governor, and senator, whose life was fictionalized in }{\i\f21\fs18 All the King's Men}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Huey P. }{\f21\fs18\ul Long}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 5. As a grad student this man got kicked out of his apartment for having too many chickens running around and moved into William James\rquote 
s basement to do experiments. Later in his career he began to study high school students and developed the identical elements theory of transfer which encouraged teaching specific skills. But his most famous work was published as }{\i\f21\fs18 
Animal Intelligence}{\f21\fs18  and developed from his work focused on felines and learning. FTP identify this proto-behaviorist who has a box named after him and coined the laws of exercise and effect.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Edward }{\f21\fs18\ul Thorndike}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 6. The tit
le figure serves as the butler to the Persian King Artaxerxes I. Granted a leave of absence, he returns to Judah. Serving as governor, he institutes a prohibition against high interest rates, cancels the debts owed by the poor, excludes non-Israelits from 
the "assembly of God", prohibits intermarriage, and passes an injunction against work or trade on the Sabbath. Under is leadership, Ezra establishes proper reading of the "the book of the law of Moses" and the walls of Jerusalem are rebuilt in just 52 days
. FTP, identify this book of Hebrew writings, originally paired with Ezra and Chronicles.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Nehemiah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 
7. They were converted to Christianity as a result of the efforts of Saint Ninian and Saint Columba. In the 7th century they recognized a single king, Brude. Their name was first used in Roman sources in 297 and by the sixth century they were organized in 
at least two kingdoms north of the River Forth. They reached the peak of their power under Angus, who established ascendancy over the Scots in 740. 
The matrilineal system of inheritance caused succession problems, and they declined before joining with the Scots in the kingdom of Alba. FTP, identify these ancient inhabitants of northern Scotland.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Pict}{\f21\fs18 s}{\i\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
8. It is produced by the oxidation of tyrosine or tryptophan (TRIP-toe-fan), therefore its production is inhibited in patients suffering from phenylketonuria (fee-null-key-toe-NOO-ree-ah) because the hydroxylation of tyrosine is inhibited by elevated pheny
lalanine (fee-null-AL-ah-neen) levels
. Found sometimes in the adrenal gland but more commonly in the eyes, hair, and skin, its absence results in paleness and lack of hair color. FTP name this black skin pigment, whose production is stimulated by the presence of sunlight.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi720 \f20 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul melanin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 9. This poem ends with the couple flying \ldblquote away into the storm.\rdblquote  Set in the depths of winter the hero must count on the aid of old Angela to bypass the \ldblquote hyena foemen and hotblooded lords\rdblquote 
 who guard his lady. He sneaks in during a ball and after hiding in her b
edroom rouses her by singing. The title refers to a legendary night when maidens may have visions of their lovers. FTP, identify this narrative poem about Madeline and Porphyro, written by John Keats.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Eve of St. Agnes}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 
10. Along with Shamash, the sun god, and Sin, the moon god, she forms a secondary astral triad. In this manifestation her symbol is a star with 6, 8, or 16 rays within a circle. She was the protectress of prostitutes and the patroness of the alehouse. Her 
cult centre, Erech, was a
 city filled with courtesans and harlots. In one story she is rejected by Gilgamesh and in revenge sends a bull to destruy Uruk. A famous entryway named after her and decorated with symbols of violence and virility, dragons and bulls, was built around 575 
BC in what is now Iraq. FTP, identify this Babylonian goddess of war and sexual love.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ishtar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 
11. Located just south of the equator, it can produce up to three rice crops per year, though its major industry is tourism. Bordering on the Java Sea to 
the north and the Indian Ocean to the south, major cities include Kuta and Sanur. Though the country it is part of is mainly Muslim, 80% of its population is Hindu. FTP, name this Indonesian island, with capital at Denpasar, immediately east of Java and so
uth of Borneo.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi720 \f20 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bali}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 12. He has made numerous contributions to the study of education in the United States, including his }{\i\f21\fs18 On Higher Education: The Academic Enterprise in an Era of Rising Student Consumerism}{\f21\fs18 
. His most famous work is subtitled "A stu
dy of the Changing American Character" and focuses on changes in character resulting from major population shifts and technological developments, which he defined as the inner and outer-directed types. FTP identify this famed sociologist, whose best known 
work was co-written with Nathan Glazer, 1952's }{\i\f21\fs18 The Lonely Crowd}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: David }{\f21\fs18\ul Riesman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 13. He earned a law degree from Lincoln\rquote 
s Inn at 19, and helped in the successful election campaign of Dadabhai Naoroji, who became the first Indian elected to Parliame
nt. An advocate of Hindi-Muslim cooperation, he split with Gandhi over the practice of non-cooperation. FTP name this statesman, who, as leader of the Muslim League, eventually oversaw the partition of the subcontinent and became the first governor-general
 of Pakistan. \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Muhammad Ali }{\f21\fs18\ul Jinnah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
14. Developed in 1958, this process allows for the most precise measurement currently possible in science, measuring the natural line width of a gamma ray spectrum to better than one part in 10 trillion. This is 
accomplished by imbedding radioactive atoms in a crystal lattice, allowing the recoil energy from each radioactive decay to be absorbed by the entire lattice rather than just the decaying nucleus. FTP, name this spectroscopic technique, named for its devel
oper and winner of the 1961 Nobel Prize in Physics.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Mossbauer}{\f21\fs18  Effect\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 15. Although he earned his living at an early age by playing the violin in cafes and dance bands, he went on to become leader of the Frankfurt Orchestra. An opponent of the 1
2 tone school, he wrote what he called utility music, and collaborated with Weill on the music for a radio cantata by Bertolt Brecht, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Lindbergh Flight}{\f21\fs18 . His works include both a Violin and a Cello Concerto and the song cycles 
}{\i\f21\fs18 The Young Maid}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Life of Mary}{\f21\fs18 , but he is best known for an opera based on the life of the painter Mathias Grunewald. FTP identify this German composer of }{\i\f21\fs18 Mathis der Maler}{\f21\fs18 .
\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Hindemith}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 16. Due to the animosities between the Holy Roman Emperor and the French Monarch,
 this treaty could not take effect until the completion of additional negotiations in Madrid, Baden, and Rastatt. Charles VI was recognized as ruler of Milan, Tuscany, Belgium, Sardinia, and Naples. Meanwhile Victor Amadeus II of Savoy was recognized King 
of Sicily and Frederick I was named King of Prussia, while the French obtained Alsace and agreed to stop supporting the heirs of James II. FTP, identify this collection of Treaties recognizing Philip V, which ended the War of the Spanish Succession.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Peace of }{\f21\fs18\ul Utrecht}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 17. It begins with a housecall during which Jeremiah de St. Amour is found dead. After a series of letters that end with a proposal, and the declaration \ldblquote I will marry you if you promise not to make me eat eggplant
\rdblquote  Aunt Escolastica tells her ward to marry 
the poetic assistant to Lotario Thugut. Unfortunately Lorenzo Daza has promised his daughter Fermina to another. FTP identify this work, detailing the patience of Florentino Ariza as he waits half a century for Dr. Juvenal Urbino to die
 so that he may be reunited with his love, a novel by Gabriel Garc\'92a Marquez.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Love in the Time of Cholera}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 
18. This band emerged from a 1981 ad placed in L.A.'s Recycler Magazine, that read: "loud rude aggressive guitarist seeks bandmates". The surprising success of their first single, "Live Wire" off the }{\i\f21\fs18 Too Fast For Love}{\f21\fs18 
 album, spawned follow-up hits including the raunchy "Ten Seconds To Love", "Looks That Kill", and the occult influenced "Shout at the Devil". Reacting against trendy bands like Poison, the band moved away from glam in with the 1987 album, }{\i\f21\fs18 
Girls, Girls, Girls}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, name this rock band that featured Nikki Sixx, Mick Mars, Vince Neil and Tommy Lee.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Motley Cr\'9fe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 19. The subject of the first poem published under his own name by Robert Browning, he died shortly after being offered a permanent post at Salzburg. Earlier at Nuremburg he had witten }{\i\f21\fs18 The Great Surgery Book}{\f21\fs18 
 and given the first clinical description of syphilis. Believing in the divine alchemy of the creator he called the
 primal matter the Mysterium Magnum, and added his three principles of sulphur, mercury, and salt to the four Aristotetlian elements. FTP identify this former town physician and lecturer at Basel whose real name was Theophrastus Bombastus von Hoehnheim.
\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Paracelsus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 
20. After an accident injures Louisa, Captain Benwick (bennick) steps in to help her heal and in the process allows for the possibility of a romance, which was discouraged eight years earlier by Lady Russell, to redevelop. But by the time
 the suitor arrives in Bath it appears that the heroine may be destined to marry her cousin William, heir to Kellynch Hall. By the end, however, William\rquote s duplicity with Mrs. Clay is discovered and Frederick Wentworth\rquote 
s proposal is accepted. FTP identify this 1818 novel, featuring Anne Elliot, the last completed work of Jane Austen.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Persuasion}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 1. It was used during the Rebellions of 1837 to take men and supplies to William Lyon Mackenzie's camp on Navy Island. On the night of December 29, a small 
party of loyal militia crossed the Niagara River, seized the ship, removed its crew, and set it on fire. It sank in the river above the Falls, and one American life was lost. The incident was much exaggerated by Mackenzie in order to build up American supp
ort for his rebellion. FTP identify this Affair named after the burned ship which escalated tensions until the Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Caroline}{\f21\fs18  Affair\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 2. His support of Robert Gray and his ship the Columbia helped to promote the fir
st circumnavigation of the globe by an American. Early in his life he travelled to London and studied under Robert Adam and his design for the Augusta capitol features a 185 foot dome topped by a statue of Minerva. He also designed the Conneticut State Hou
se and was the fourth man to work on the United States Capitol, following after Latrobe. FTP identify this man whose most famous works are still somewhat intact in and around Boston.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Charles }{\f21\fs18\ul Bulfinch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. Mrs. Walker embodies the scorn of the Amer
ican community against her, which she earns by her suspect relations. At Vevey, Mrs. Costello warns her nephew to avoid her because he has little experience with flirty American girls, but a frustrated affection develops between Winterbourne and the title 
character nonetheless. FTP who is this Henry James character, seduced by Giovanelli, who ultimately dies of malaria in Rome?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Daisy Miller}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Introducing the signal flag, using a mobile circle of wagons as a base of operations, and adopting the deci
mal system to troops units, this general overcame both limited manpower and a deficiency of protective armor. Prioritizing speed, he relied solely on cavalry units, engaging in sneak attacks on smaller enemy detachments. Turning on his former allies, Torgh
il and Jamulka, he consolidated victories over the Taichi'ut and Tatars. FTP, identify this general who destroyed the Khwarizm Empire, sacked Beijing in 1215, and totally ravaged Asman's Sporting Goods in a 1989 movie.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Genghis Khan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 He was a Pythag
orean, believing that there was an inner order to all sets of numbers that governed the Universe. After twenty of years of collecting and analyzing data, he formulated the laws that bear his name. However, his work was superseded by the publication of }{
\i\f21\fs18 Principia Mathematica}{\f21\fs18 , which proved that his work could be derived in an afternoon by proceeding from Newton\rquote 
s Laws of Motion. FTP, name this man, considered the founder of modern optics but most famous for the Laws of Planetary Motion.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Johannes }{\f21\fs18\ul Kepler}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Trained as a gunsmith, he apprenticed under a jeweler, before opening a business as a miniature painter and hair worker. After earning enough money to buy 
his mother a farm, he moved to England in 1786 to study painting under Benjamin West, but instead became an engineer. Employed by both the British and French navies, he returned to America after the battle of Trafalgar, where he launched a floating fortres
s in New York harbor. FTP, identify this designer of the submarine }{\i\f21\fs18 Nautilus}{\f21\fs18 , and steamboat }{\i\f21\fs18 Clermont}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Robert }{\f21\fs18\ul Fulton}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Michigan\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. Identify these economists who wrote the following books FTP each. If you need the year they won the Nobel Prize, you'll only receive 5 points.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points)}{\i\f21\fs18  The Pure Theory of Capital\par 
}{\f21\fs18 (5 points) 1974\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Friedrich von }{\f21\fs18\ul Hayek\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Foundations of Economic Analysis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) 1970\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Samuelson}{\i\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 National Income and its Composition, 1919-1938\par 
}{\f21\fs18 (5 points) 1971\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Simon }{\f21\fs18\ul Kuznets}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Answer these questions about the }{\i\f21\fs18 Kalevala}{\f21\fs18  FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. Forged by the Magician and Smith, Ilmarinen, it represents both the world and 
heavens, as well as the life giving properties of the male member. A mill which continuously grounds out salt, flour, and gold, conflict over its possession forms the centerpiece of the epic.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul sampo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
2. The central figure of the epic, this "eternal sage" marries the daughter of Louhi, only to discover Louhi's evil nature. At the conclusion of the epic he recognizes the son of the virgin Marjatta as the savior of Kaleval1.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vainamoinen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. An additional series of episodes follow the exploits 
of this stone-age Don Juan and friend of Vainamoinen. Primarily a comic figure, his mother resurrects him after he is murdered by Soppy Hat.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lemminkainen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. Identify the 17}{\f21\fs18\up6 th}{\f21\fs18  Century poets from lines FTP or from titles for 5 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) "If I have freedom in my love / And in my soul am free / Angels alone that soar, above / Enjoy such liberty"\par 
(5 points) \ldblquote To Amarantha that she would dishevel her hair\rdblquote  and "To Althea from Prison"\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Richard }{\f21\fs18\ul Lovelace}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) "I struck the board and cried: No more / I will abroad / What shall I ever sigh and pine / My lines and life are free, free as the road"\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) \ldblquote The Collar" and \ldblquote Easter Wings\rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Herbert}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) "Our life is short, and our days run / As far away as does the sun; / And as a vapor, or a drop of rain / Once lost, can ne'er be found again"\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) \ldblquote Delight in Disorder\rdblquote  and \ldblquote To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time"\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Robert }{\f21\fs18\ul Herrick}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
4. Identify the following female social reformers, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. President of the Women's International Leagu
e for Peace and Freedom, she was also a founder of the Progressive Party. In 1931 she was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, primarily for her work at Chicago's Hull House.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Jane }{\f21\fs18\ul Addams}{\i\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
2. After living in Hull House, she became a member and chairwoman of the New York State Industrial Board, and advocated social security, unemployment compensation, minimum wage and maximum hours, and child welfare legislation. In 1933, she was named Secret
ary of Labor.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Frances }{\f21\fs18\ul Perkins}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. A physician specializing i
n toxicology, she began studying occupational safety while living at Hull House. The sister of a noted classicist, in 1919 she became Harvard's first female professor and served as a consultant to Division of Labor Standards of the Department of Labor. 
\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Alice }{\f21\fs18\ul Hamilton}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
5. }{\f21\fs18 Answer}{\f21\fs18  the following }{\f21\fs18 questions }{\f21\fs18 about roots FTP each:\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. This structure also known as the primary root is the first organ to appear when a seed germinates. It grows downward into the soil anchoring the seedling.
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul radicle}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. These ty
pes of roots arise from an organ other than the original root. They make it possible to vegetatively propagate many plants from stem or leaf cuttings.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul adventitious}{\f21\fs18  roots\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
3. Roots grow in length from their ends, which are protected by the root cap. Just underneath this cap lies this layer of continually dividing cells which helps to lengthen and strengthen the root.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul apical meristem}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 6. Given a description, identify the following about the Merovingian dynasty, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. The son of Childeric, he was the first Merovingian to be recognized King of the Franks. At his death in 511, France was divided between his four sons.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Clovis}{\i\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. A Princess of the Bourguignon and a devotee of St. Genevive, she converted her husband Clovis to Christianity.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Clotilda}{\i\f21\fs18\ul  }{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
3. After defeating the Alamanni, a Germanic tribe to the east, Clovis cemented rule over France by defeating an army of this tribe and killing their King, Alaric II, in battle near Poitiers.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi720 \f20 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Visigoth}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 7. Identify these plays by that punk William Inge from a description FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. This 1955 play concerns the passengers of a cross-country vehicle who are stranded overnight and congregate in Grace\rquote s restaurant where Bo the cowboy and Cherie the singer hook up.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bus Stop}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. In this work two people trapped in a barren 20 year marriage suffer. Lola faces the loss of the titular dog, while Doc is tempted by the young boarder Marie.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Come Back, Little Sheba}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. Awarded the Pulitzer in 1953, it focuses on a group of women in a small Kansas town whose lives are disrupted by the appearance of a studly drifter.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Picnic}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
8. Identify the amino acids FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. The only achiral amino acid, its flexibility makes it useful in the turns of beta pleated sheets.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul glycine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. Capable of forming disulfide bridges, its presence can be tested for using a reduction cleavage with 2-merkaptoethanol.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cysteine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. The most sterically hindered amino group, its side-chain forms a five-membered ring with its amino and methyl groups.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul proline}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 9. During the 1980s the Toronto Blue Jays relied upon Dominican athletes. Answer these questions about them FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
1. This tempestuous leftfielder slugged 47 homers in 1987, winning the MVP award. He would also play for both the Chicago Cubs and White Sox. His brother Juan was a marginal shortstop.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Bell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. The development of this switch-hitting shortstop enabled Toronto to unload Alfredo Griffin. An all-star and four gold glover with Toronto, he was traded to S
an Diego for Roberto Alomar, and also played for Cincinnati, Cleveland and New York.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Tony }{\f21\fs18\ul Fernandez}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
3. Currently the home of a Rookie League Braves team, both George Bell and Tony Fernandez were natives of this small port city. Current major league players from this town include Luis Castillo, Manny Alexander, Jose Jimenez, and Sammy Sosa. \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul San Pedro de Macoris}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 10. Identify the following medieval leaders, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. According to tradition, this man\rquote s Songhai army was never defeated in ba
ttle, including the capture of Timbuktu from the Tuareg in 1468 and numerous victories over the Mussi. \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sonni Ali}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. Aside from depressing the Cairo gold market during his hajj, this Mali emperor rebuilt the city of Gao, which he integrated into his empire. \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mansa Musa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. He reinvigorated Timbuktu as a center of Islamic learning and also revived trans-Saharan trade. He deposed Sonni Ali\rquote 
s sucessor to become emperor, creating a Soninke dynasty and installed an Islamic legal system. \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Askia Muhammad}{\f21\fs18  Ture \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 11. Answer these questions about that most boring of art forms, non-narrative cinema, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. Roger Ebert calls this man\rquote s first film, }{\i\f21\fs18 Gates of Heaven}{\f21\fs18 , one of the ten greatest films ever made. He has also made }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Thin Blue Line}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Fast, Cheap and Out of Control}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Mr. Death: The Rise and Fall of Frank A. Leuchter Jr.}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Errol }{\f21\fs18\ul Morris}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. This series of documentaries by Michael Apted follows the lives of a group of Britons with new installments produced every seven years. \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Up}{\f21\fs18  Documentaries (series installments include \ldblquote Seven Up, \ldblquote Seven plus Seven\rdblquote , 
\ldblquote 21 Up\rdblquote , \ldblquote 28 Up\rdblquote , \ldblquote 35 Up\rdblquote  and \ldblquote 42 Up\rdblquote )\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. Chronicling a day in the life of a Soviet city, this avant-garde documentary by Dziga Vertov also shows its shooting, editing and public viewing. \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Man With a Movie Camera}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Man With the Movie Camera}{\f21\fs18  (accept either title)\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
12. Answer the following questions about Sigmund Freud FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. Although John Huston\rquote s terrible film }{\i\f21\fs18 Freud}{\f21\fs18  played fast and loose with history it did include a scene in which Sigmund was approached by this doctor who shared top billing on Freud\rquote 
s first work }{\i\f21\fs18 Studies in Hysteria.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Joseph }{\f21\fs18\ul Breuer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. Breuer introduced Freud to the case of this young girl who was harboring all sorts of psychosexual angst towards her father after finding him in bed with prostitutes.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Anna O.}{\i\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. After the Anna O. case Freud set out to work on this book, which was published to co-incide with the beginning of the 20th century, in which he layed out the plan for identifying manifest and latent content in
 the titular phenomena.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Interpretation of Dreams\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 13. Answer the following about the academic fad known as cultural studies FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. The cultural studies movement originated in the mid-1960s in Birmingham, England, and was heavily influenced by the work of this author of }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Country and the City}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Keywords}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Culture and Society}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Raymond }{\f21\fs18\ul Williams}{\f21\fs18 \line 
2. This French academic has helped shape cultural studies in the United States. His chief works include }{\i\f21\fs18 The Archaeology of Knowledge}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Madness and Civilization}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Discipline and Punish}{
\f21\fs18 . \par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Michel }{\f21\fs18\ul Foucault}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. This influential if obscure queer theorist is best known for books like }{\i\f21\fs18 Gender Trouble}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Bodies That Matter}{
\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Judith }{\f21\fs18\ul Butler}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
14. Answer the following about a Roman ruler FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. The elder son of Septimius Severus, and Julia Domna, he was originally named Bassianus, but was known by his nickname after a long hooded tunic worn by the Gauls.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Caracalla\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. Aside from his loopy obsession with Alexander, Caracalla was also very superstitious and thought of himself as the son of this Egyptian deity.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Serapis}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Sarapis\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. His growing madness and bloody murder of his brother Geta led to his overthrow by this man, the commander of the Imperial guard.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Macrinus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 15. Identify these works of Russian literature from a description FTP each. If you need the name of the author, you will receive five points.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) Centering on Kostoglotov it traces the way in which moribund patients in the title place come to grips with mortality.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) Alexander Solzhenitsyn\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Cancer Ward}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Based on the author\rquote s own experiences in an Omsk prison it follows Goryanshikov and his relation to fellow inmate Aleya.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) Fyodor Dostoevsky\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul House of the Dead}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) In this 1892 short story Dr. Ragin is committed to his own state mental where his friend Ivan Gromov is an inmate.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) Anton Chekhov\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ward Number 6}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 16. Identify the following stuff in the nervous system FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. This clear, colorless liquid surrounds the brain and spinal cord and acts a lubricant and mechanical barrier against shock or traum}{\f21\fs18 a}{\f21\fs18 .
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cerebrospinal fluid}{\f21\fs18  (also accept }{\f21\fs18\ul csf}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. The cerebrospinal fluid is absorbed by the pachionian bodies and secreted by this collection of blood vessels.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul choroid plexus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. The choroid plexus is found within these cavities in the white matter that allow for circulation and drainage of cerebrospinal fluid.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ventricle}{\f21\fs18 s (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul lateral ventricle}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 17. Given a description, identify the following British mercantile policies FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
1. Passed in 1733, this law aimed at restricting colonial imports from the Spanish and French West indies, as well as dampening the rum trade. However, its poor enforcement stimulated the rise of smuggling.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Molasses}{\f21\fs18  Act\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
2. In order to pay war debts, in 1764 Parliament replaced the Molasses Act with this bill, adding duties on wine, coffee, and indigo. To prevent smuggling, duties were placed upon reshipments and documentation and inspection standards were established.
\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sugar}{\f21\fs18  Act (accept also }{\f21\fs18\ul American Revenue}{\f21\fs18  Act)\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
3. After protests against the Sugar Act and the Stamp Act, in 1766, Parliament passed this bill which repealed the Stamp Act and lowered the duty on Molasses to bel
ow the cost of Smuggling. More importantly, it reasserted Parliament's right to legislate over the colonies in all matters whatsoever, regardless of representation.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Declaratory}{\f21\fs18  Act\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 18. Identify the following straits FTP each.\par 
1. It separates Sumatra from the Malay Peninsula.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the strait of }{\f21\fs18\ul Malacca}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. Between Djibouti and Yemen, it separates the Gulf of Aden from the Red Sea.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bab el Mandeb}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. The narrowest point of the Gulf of Mannar, it separates India from Sri Lanka.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Palk}{\f21\fs18  Strait\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 19. Everyone knows that the EPR paradox was proposed by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen. Answer these questions about the details of the paradox, for
 fifteen points each each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. Einstein\rquote s motivation for his opposition to quantum mechanics and support of Podolsky\rquote 
s arguments stems from its lack of adherence to this principle at the core of relativity. The paradox proposed \ldblquote hidden variables\rdblquote  in order to achieve it.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: principle of }{\f21\fs18\ul locality}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. The disproof the EPR \ldblquote hidden variables\rdblquote 
 argument was provided by this mathematical statement which demonstrated that, in fact, no information would be transmitted instantaneously by the above experiment.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bell\rquote s inequality}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 20. Identify the following works by Robert Schumann from a description FTP each.\par 
1. This work for solo piano is composed of 13 episodes including the well known \ldblquote Of Foreign Lands and People.\rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Kinderszenen}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Scenes from Childhood}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. Schumann's Opus 114, this overture was composed for a poetic drama by Lord Byron, and premiered in Leipzig in 1852.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Manfred}{\f21\fs18  Overture}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. This work for orchestra in B-flat major was composed in 1841 for the King of Saxony and was performed under the direction of Felix Mendelssohn in Leipzig that same year.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Symphony Number 1}{\f21\fs18  or the }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Spring Symphony}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \par 
Identify the following about a classical trio FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. This group individually named Ocypeta, Celeno, and Aello, were daughters of the titaness Electra, and corrupt sisters to Iris.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Harpie}{\f21\fs18 s}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. This king was victimized by the harpies who continually stole and despoiled his food.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Phineus\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. Phineus was freed from the harpies by these two members of the Argonauts. Name them for five points each.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Calais}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Zetes}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
Identify the following reproductive hormones FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. Secreted by the anterior pituitary, it converts a follicle to the corpus leuteum and triggers ovulation.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul luteinizing hormone}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul LH}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. Secreted by the corpus leuteum, it is repsonsible for development and maintenance of the endometrial walls prior to ovulation.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul progesterone}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. Secreted by the anterior pituitary, it stimualtes the maturation of ovarian follicles or spermatogenesis.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul follicle stimulating hormone}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul FSH}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}}