{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere 
\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Tossups by Oklahoma (Emily Moore, David Smith, Stephen Gill, Dan Beshear)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. They are all eventually sterilized and include a boy (or girl) able to change sex, a boy who can step through mirrors, a girl so extraordinarily beautiful she
 drives men to suicide, and a time traveller. Shiva, the true son of Mr. and Mrs. Sinai, possesses great strength and gigantic knees, while Saleem Sinai, a boy with an oversized nose, is able to read thoughts. 
They were all born within one hour of each other on August 15, 1947. FTP, name these title characters of a Booker Prize winning novel by Salman Rushdie.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Midnight's Children}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. His first major contribution to biology came in 1876, when an epidemic struck in Silesia. He was able to isolate 
the bacteria responsible, transferring it from the host into mice and eventually into blood serum kept at body temperature. 
Eventually he was able to make use of agar to create cultures of bacteria and used them to create an inoculation against the anthrax bacteria five years later. 
His most famous work came one year later in 1882 when he was able to use the same techniques to find the bacterium responsible for tuberculosis. FTP, name this German physician whose work confirmed Pasteur\rquote s germ theory and w
on him the Nobel Prize in 1905.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Robert }{\f21\fs18\ul Koch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Both asteroid #944 and a state are named for this man. On January 11, 1811, his army was routed by forces led by Felix Calleja, and he was caught fleeing north and shot. 
The previous year, he had captured Guanajuato and Guadalajara after proclaiming a crusade to free Mexico from Spanish rule under the banner of Our Lady of Guadalupe. 
FTP, identify this Mexican priest, whose name figures in the treaty that ended the Mexican-American War.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Miguel }{\f21\fs18\ul Hidalgo}{\f21\fs18  y Costilla\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4. The author of this work identifies himself with both Jesus Christ and Alfred Dreyfuss, the latter "hounded, spat on and slandered." 
He also seems to be a "young boy in Byelostok," who is beaten and witnesses his mother's rape during a pogrom. He also identifies himself with Anne Frank, "transparent as a branch in April." 
Most importantly, he identifies with the 34,000 Jews who in September 1941 were taken and shot in a ravine outside of Kiev. FTP, name this 1961 poem by Yevgeny Yevtushenko, which inspired the thirteenth symphony of Shostakovitch.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Babi Yar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5. Its name derives from the Kirgiz for \ldblquote sea of islands,\rdblquote  and the largest islands in it are Kokaral and Barsakelmes. To its west lies the Ustyurt Plateau, while the Amu Darya delta lies on its southern shore. 
FTP, identify this fourth largest inland body of water in the world, which is located between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan and to the east of the Caspian Sea.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Aral}{\f21\fs18  Sea\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 6. The original draft was over fifty pages long, and was adopted at a conference forty miles from Detroit, in a camp owned by the UAW. 
Fewer than sixty people attended the conference, including 43 members of the organization which was to adopt it as its manifesto. It railed against the "remote control economy," 
the military industrial complex, racial discrimination and called for participatory democracy. FTP, name this 1962 manifesto, accepted by "people of this generation looking uncomfortably to the world we inherit," which was w
ritten largely by Tom Hagen for SDS.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Port Huron}{\f21\fs18  Statement\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 7. One of the title characters is sacrificed by the order of Neoptolemus on his father's grave. Another is dragged off into sexual slavery by the commander of the victorious enemy. 
Another, who only marginally belongs to the group, is inexplicably spared by her cuckolded husband. Another sees her son, Astyanax, thrown from the walls of the ruined city in order to end the royal line. FTP, name this play, which was first produced shor
tly after the Athenians captured the city of Melos, a tragedy by Euripedes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Trojan Women}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Troades}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. It includes discussion of the story of the merman and Agnes and the situation of Sarah in the book of Tobit. 
The opening "Exordium" imagines four different ways of seeing the central event, and is followed by a "Eulogy" on a man who was a knight of faith. 
FTP, name this "dialectical lyric," a work issued under the psuedonym of Johannes de Silentio which considers the problem of the sacrifice of Isaac, written by the Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Fear and Trembling}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Frygt og Boeven\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 9. Procopius tells us that this man died of guilt and shame upon being served a fish. 
Also known as Dietrich von Bern, he was an Arian who enforced religious tolerance, though the last years of his reign featured the executions of Symmachius and Boethius. 
FTP name this king of the Ostrogoths, who received permission from Zeno to invade Italy and ruled from Rome after murdering Odoacer. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Theodoric}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Theoderic}{\f21\fs18 ) the Great (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Dietrich}{\f21\fs18  von Bern if someone manages to say that after the first sentence)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 10. Hermine insists that the main character will kill her, and he eventually does. The book ends with the laughter of Mozart, one of the "Immortals" whom the hero admires. 
Earlier he finds an advertisement "For Madmen Only!' and a treatise that describes his own alienation and dual nature as both man and beast. FTP, name this 1927 novel that features Henry Haller, a work by Hermann Hes
se whose name was adopted by a rock band in the 1960s.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Steppenwolf}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Der }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Steppenwolf}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 11. The only probe to explore this planet was a fly-by of Mariner 10 on March 29, 1974. The solar noon occurs every 176 Earth-days, and the planet is at perihelion when solar noon occurs over the Caloris Basin. 
Adding insult to injury, as the planet approaches perihelion, apparent solar motion slows, stops, reverses briefly, stops again, and then finally heads toward sunset. FTP identify this planet, whose wea
k magnetic field is thought to have been induced by the planet's relatively large solid iron core in close proximity to the Sun.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mercury}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. Of its twenty-five sessions, three actually took place at Bologna. 
Signed by 255 men, only sixty of so were at most of the sessions, and Salmeron and Lainez spoke first and last on every topic, as well as being the only ones allowed to preach. 
It suggested less concubinage, approved the Apocrypha, made Latin official for the Mass, set up an index of prohibited books, and declared that justification was by both faith and works. 
FTP, name this council, which went from 1545 to 1563 and started the Counter-Reformation.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Council of }{\f21\fs18\ul Trent}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 13. Melanie Klein suggested that it was a tendency to repair and restore the good object that is destroyed by destructive instincts. In }{\i\f21\fs18 The Ego and the Id}{\f21\fs18 
, it is connected to the desexualized libidinal energy of the ego that can be displaced onto other activity. FTP, identify this psychoanalytic concept, which Freud in
voked to explain activities like art and intellectual inquiry which have no obvious connection to sexuality but are motivated by it, a term which is used in chemistry to describe a procedure in which a substance moves directly from the solid to the gas sta
te.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul sublimation}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. In classical mechanics, the conservation of this quantity can be derived from the invariance of the Lagrangian under spatial transformations. More directly, the canonically conjugate form of this quantity can be calculated by
 taking the partial derivative of the Lagrangian with respect to velocity. Quantum mechanically, this quantity is equal to the ratio of the Planck constant and an object\rquote s equivalent wavelength. 
FTP, name this physical quantity, more commonly given as the product of mass and velocity.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul momentum}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 15. His novels include }{\i\f21\fs18 Querelle of Brest}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Funeral Rites}{\f21\fs18 , both of which were published in 1947. His youthful experiences at the Mettray reform school are described in }{\i\f21\fs18 
Miracle of the Rose}{\f21\fs18 , while }{\i\f21\fs18 The Thief's Journal}{\f21\fs18  tells the story of his life as a male prostitute. FTP, name this French criminal and author, best known for Absurdist dramas like }{\i\f21\fs18 The Screens}{\f21\fs18 , }
{\i\f21\fs18 The Blacks}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Maids}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jean }{\f21\fs18\ul Genet}{\f21\fs18  (zhuh-NAY)}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 16. The group's saxophonist said that the third song on this album was "never supposed to be a hit. It was supposed to be a Joe Morello drum solo." 
The group experimented with Indian and Middle Eastern music, most notably in the album's first song, "Blue Rondo a la Turk." None of the seven songs are in normal 4/4 time, but in 5/4, 9/8, 6/4 and combinations of 3 and 4. 
FTP, name this album by the Dave Brubeck Quartet, which features the aforementioned solo "Take Five," which shares its name with something that is lost when an NFL coach loses a challenge to instant replay.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Time Out}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 17. His daughter wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 The Veiled Doctor}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Romance of Summer Seas}{\f21\fs18 . 
He resigned from the House of Representatives in 1846 to serve in the Mexican War, and after the war he became Zachary Taylor's son-in-law and twi
ce served as a senator from Mississippi, though he may be best known for a position he held during the Civil War. 
FTP, identify this Southerner who was indicted for treason in 1866 but never prosecuted, Secretary of War under Pierce and the President of the Confederacy.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jefferson }{\f21\fs18\ul Davis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. At 2.4 billion barns, the 135 isotope of this element has by far the highest neutron absorption cross-section, so much so that older nuclear reactors have to wait for enough of it to decay to prevent a "preclud
ed startup," but fortunately this wait is less than a day. 
Its large size has also made it the candidate of choice for atom-by-atom manipulation, including the development of a single atom switch in 1996 and the precise placement of 35 atoms on a nickel crystal to spell \ldblquote IBM\rdblquote . 
FTP, identify this noble gas discovered in 1898 by Ramsey and Travers, with atomic number 54 and symbol Xe.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul xenon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 19. In Second Peter 2:7, he is mentioned as a righteous man. According to Genesis 19, he was the ancestor of Moab and Ammon. 
The son of Haran, he accompanied his uncle to Canaan, but would later have problems with the women in his family, as his daughters slept with him after his wife was petrified.  
FTP, identify this Biblical figure, the nephew of Abraham whose wife was turned into a pillar of salt.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lot}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 20. His works include 1625's }{\i\f21\fs18 Lot Fleeing from Sodom}{\f21\fs18 , which is now housed in the Louvre. After studying under Venius, he went to Italy in 1600, where he began working for Vincenzo Gonzaga, a period
 during which he painted his }{\i\f21\fs18 Transfiguration}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Baptism of Christ}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, name this painter of the Ildefenso Altarpiece, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Toilet of Venus}{\f21\fs18 , and the }{\i\f21\fs18 
Descent from the Cross}{\f21\fs18 , a Flemish Baroque artist best known for his distinctive portrayals of fleshy female nudes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Peter Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Rubens}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 1. The main roots are usually fibrous, and secondary or adventitious roots often arise from the nodes of the stems. The leaves, which are borne at the nodes along the stem, are in two rows and consist of a sheath 
and a blade. The sheath encircles the stem and gives support to the meristem. 
This is the most widely distributed group of flowering plants, occurring from well above the Arctic Circle through the temperate and tropical regions, and are the only flowering plants to grow on the Antarctic continent. 
FTP give this common name for this plant group, members of the family Poaceae, whose members include sugar cane and bamboo.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul grass}{\f21\fs18 es (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Poaceae}{\f21\fs18  early)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 2. His novels include }{\i\f21\fs18 The Dean's December}{\f21\fs18  and his nonfiction includes }{\i\f21\fs18 To Jerusalem and Back}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 It All Adds Up}{\f21\fs18 . 
He created a new Jewish tradition in American fiction through his first novel, }{\i\f21\fs18 Dangling Man}{\f21\fs18 . The death of poet and friend Delmore Schwartz was dealt with in }{\i\f21\fs18 Humboldt's Gift}{\f21\fs18 . FTP name the author of }{
\i\f21\fs18 Henderson the Rain King}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Adventures of Augie March}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Herzog}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Saul }{\f21\fs18\ul Bellow}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. His "friends and admirers" included an entire order of Carmelite nuns, who sent him packages on his birthday. Famous for his misogyny, he said that th
e only place for women in the movement was "prone," and he took over a post vacated by John Lewis in 1965, turning his organization onto a far more radical path. Preaching black nationalism, he expelled all white members from his group in 1966. 
FTP, name this radical leader of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Stokely }{\f21\fs18\ul Carmichael}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 When you die, the world will continue without you, sometimes in ways you didn't expect. Such is the discovery of this poem's first speaker, a newly-buried man who asks questions of the second speaker, his former best friend. 
After being assured that boys still play football and that his girlfriend is not suffering, the corpse asks if is friend is hearty, and receives a beautifully worded \tab Answer: 
"Aye, lad, I lie easy, I lie as men would choose; I cheer a dead man's sweetheart, Never ask me whose." FTP name this A. E. Housman poem which takes its name from the cuckolded corpse's question about farming.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Is My Team Plowing?\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 He was an all-American on the Rutgers University football team, and pursued a career in law until a white stenographer refused to take dictation from him. 
First visiting the Soviet Union in 1934, he was so enamored of the country he had his son educated there. 
Though he would later become disenchanted with the anti-semitic purges of Stalin, he defended the country in Paris in 1949, prompting a violent riot at a concert he gave in Peeskill later that year. 
FTP name this great African American activist and baritone, famous for singing Ol' Man River.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Paul Robeson\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 Possibly a "living fossil", these mammals are found in Africa and parts of the Middle East. Some species are tree dwellers, others live on the ground, all feed on vegetation. 
They are about 20 inches in length, with a head that is thick and pointed; short, rounded ears; a short neck and squat body with short thin legs and a rudimentary tail. The feet, which are equipped with soft, elastic pads for climbing, have hooflike claws;
 each forefoot has four toes, and each hindfoot has three, with the inner toe on each foot much reduced in size. FTP identify these ungulate mammals which externally resemble rodents but in internal anatomy are related to both horses and elephants.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: hyraxes\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Oklahoma\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Answer these questions about the Crusades for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) Which Crusade resulted in the destruction of Constantinople?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fourth}{\f21\fs18  Crusade\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) For five points each, what three rulers led the Third Crusade?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answers: }{\f21\fs18\ul Richard I}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Richard}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Lionheart}{\f21\fs18 ed) of England; }{\f21\fs18\ul Philip II}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Philip Augustus}{\f21\fs18 
 of France; }{\f21\fs18\ul Frederick I}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Frederick Barbarossa}{\f21\fs18  of the Holy Roman Empire\par 
3. (10 points) After his peasant army was defeated at Nicaea, this French monk, who went around Europe building enthusiasm for the First Crusade, joined the "army of the princes."\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Peter}{\f21\fs18  the Hermit\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Identify these Margaret Atwood novels, none of which is }{\i\f21\fs18 The Handmaid's Tale}{\f21\fs18 , FTP each.\par 
1. Atwood's latest, it is based on the true story of a servant girl who murders her master and mistress in 19th Century Canada.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Alias Grace}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Set right before the Gulf War and told in a series of flashbacks, it tells the stories of three women whose men are stolen one by one by the evil Zenia, who comes back from the dead.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Robber Bride}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This novel, about the cruelty little girls inflict on one another, tells of the troubled relationship between Elaine Risley, an artist, and her childhood friend Cordelia, who ends up in an insane asylum.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Cat's Eye}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Identify the artists of the following macabre works FTP each, 5 if you need a more famous work.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Death in the Sickroom}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Scream}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Edvard }{\f21\fs18\ul Munch}{\f21\fs18  (moonk)\par 
2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Knight, Death, and the Devil}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Melancolia I}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Albrecht }{\f21\fs18\ul D\'9frer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Death of Leonardo da Vinci}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Turkish Bath}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Jean Auguste Dominique }{\f21\fs18\ul Ingres}{\f21\fs18  ("angr")\par 
\par 
4. Answer the following about taxonomy, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. The original methodology for dividing animals and plants into divisions and subdivisions was detailed by Carolus Linnaeus in this 1735 work.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Systema Naturae}{\f21\fs18  (also accept }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Systems of Nature}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. While Linneaus did a bang up job on the vertebrates, he wasn\rquote t so careful with the invertebrates, putting them all into this class, Latin for \ldblquote worms.\rdblquote \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vermes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. The first systematic study of invertebrates was done by this French biologist in 1801, creating separate subdivisions for crustaceans and echinoderms as well as noticing that arachnids had eight legs and regular insects only six. 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jean-Baptiste de }{\f21\fs18\ul Lamarck}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5. Answer the following questions about 20th-century Chinese history for ten points each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Members of this included Jiang Qing and Yao Wen Yuan.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Gang of Four}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Starting in Jiangxi (jang-see) in 1934, and going through Hunan, Szechwan, and Shanxi (shan-see) before ending in Yan'an, it lasted a little over one year and left at least 80,000 dead.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Long March}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Starting in 1956, this program encouraged intellectuals to criticize the administration. It was shut down a year later, with many of the intellectuals exiled to farms.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Hundred Flowers}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. Identify these plays by Ibsen FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This play is about a Norwegian folk hero who is finally redeemed by the love of Soveig.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Peer Gynt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. At the end of this 1887 play, a former parson and his housekeeper, Rebecca West, both drown themselves.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rosmersholm}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. The title character, Dr. Stockman, urges a spa town to close its famous baths due to pollution.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 An }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Enemy of the People}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7. Name the Platonic dialogues FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. The title character is a young Thessalian nobleman who wants to know if virtue can be taught, though the dialogue is better known for Socrates's demonstration of the soul's immo
rtality from a slave's ability to answer a problem in geometry.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Meno}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Much of this dialogue on the correctness of names is devoted to Socrates giving etymological analyses of a bunch of names, including those of the gods.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Cratylus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This dialogue concerning piety occurs just before the trial of Socrates. The title character is persecuting his father for killing a slave.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Euthypro}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. Answer the following about integral transforms for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) This transform takes a function in position space and maps it into momentum space using an integral over the original function and a complex exponential.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fourier}{\f21\fs18  transform (do not accept Fourier series)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Useful for reducing differential equations to polynomials, this transform is the integral of the original function multiplied by a negative exponential.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Laplace}{\f21\fs18  transform\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This is the proper name for the inverse Laplace transform.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bromwich}{\f21\fs18  integral\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 9. Name the novel from descriptions of characters' deaths, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Herbert Truczinski dies after attempting to copulate with a wooden statue, and the main character's mother dies from eating a surfeit of fish.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Jan Bronski, who might be the main character's father, is executed by the Germans, while Herr Matzerath chokes on a Nazi insignia pin, prompting jumpy Russian soldiers to spray him with bullets.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Markus, a toy merchant, swallows poison after his store is ransacked during Kristallnacht, depriving the main character of a steady supply of his favorite toy in this Gunter Grass work.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tin Drum}{\f21\fs18  (}{\i\f21\fs18 Die }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Blechtrommel}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
10. Identify these World War I battles FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This August 1914 battle saw the defeat of the Russians and the suicide of their commander Samsonov. German commanders Hindenburg and Ludendorff became instant heroes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tannenburg}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This battle became notorious for its mud, and is also known as the Battle of Passchendaele.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Third}{\f21\fs18  Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Ypres}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This May 1916 baval battle saw a victory for the British under Jellicoe, but both sides suffered heavy losses, and the vulnerability of battle cruisers was brought to light.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Jutland\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 11. When there's only a few first names in common parlance, you're bound to get some overlap. But that's no excuse for what happens in the first ten chapters of a New Testament Book. Answer these questions about it FTP each.\par 
1. The good one of this pair lifted the scales from Saul's eyes, completing his conversion to Paul. The evil one withheld part of a gift to the church and was struck down for lying to Peter about it.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ananias}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
2. The good one of this pair was a tanner in whose home Peter was staying when he was summoned to Cornelius's house. The evil, or at least misguided, one was a practicing sorcerer who believed in God and was baptized by Philip, but then tried to bribe Pete
r into giving him the power to fill people with the Holy Spirit.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Simon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Both Ananias and Simon appear in this fifth book of the New Testament.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Acts}{\f21\fs18  of the Apostles\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. Answer the following questions about a British scientist, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. He invented a siphon recorder and a tide predictor, and at the age of 22 he became a professor of mathematics at Glasgow, where he taught for the next 53 years.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: William }{\f21\fs18\ul Thomson}{\f21\fs18  or Baron }{\f21\fs18\ul Kelvin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The second law of thermodynamics was established jointly by Kelvin and this professor of natural philosophy at Bonn.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Rudolf }{\f21\fs18\ul Clausius}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Kelvin studied in France under this chemist, who started out as a Paris shop assistant but went on to become director of the Sevr\'8fs porcelain factory and the author of the standard chemistry textbook of his day.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Henri Victor }{\f21\fs18\ul Regnault}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. Identify these authors from works on a 15-10-5 basis.\par 
1. (15 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Lying Days}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 A Soldier's Embrace}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Soft Voice of the Serpent}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Conservationist}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 July's People}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Nadine }{\f21\fs18\ul Gordimer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (15 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Shadow of a Sun}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Game}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Virgin in the Garden}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Angels and Insects}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Possession}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Antonia Susan }{\f21\fs18\ul Byatt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. Identify these jazz musicians, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In 1946, he joined Dizzy Gillespie's first big band, but is best known for his own work, such as "Round Midnight" and "Straight No Chaser."\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Thelonious Sphere }{\f21\fs18\ul Monk}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This pianist was almost blind, but still managed to perform such numbers as "I Cover the Waterfront" and "In a Sentimental Mood."\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Art }{\f21\fs18\ul Tatum}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Works by this legend of the alto sax include "I Can't Get Started" and "The Bird."\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Charlie }{\f21\fs18\ul Parker}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 15. Greeks. Persians. Bad stuff going down. Identify the following about the Battle of Marathon FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In what year did Marathon take place?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 490}{\f21\fs18  BC\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The Persians were under the command of Darius. Who was the Athenian who led the defense?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Miltiades}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. The Persians did not attack immediately after landing, for two reasons. First, their cavalry's horses were seasick. Second, they were hoping that Athens would be undermined by followe
rs of this former leader who had been ousted by Cleomenes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hippias}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. Name the story in }{\i\f21\fs18 Dubliners}{\f21\fs18  from a description FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Gabriel Conroy discovers his wife's continued love for a past fling in this famous story.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Dead}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. A boy in love goes to a carnival to get a prize for his dearest, but he fails in his quest.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Araby}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. A group of minor politicians gets together to complain about the state of things and recite bad poetry about Parnell.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ivy Day in the Committee Room}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. Answer these about electromagnetism, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In the CGS unit system, this quantity is set to unity, while in the more standard MKS system it has units of webers per ampere per meter. Not surprisingly, it also shows up in Ampere\rquote s Law for a constant electric field.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul permeability}{\f21\fs18  of }{\f21\fs18\ul free space}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. For a flat loop of current, this quantity is equal to the product of the current and the area of the loop.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Magnetic dipole moment}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This vector is the cross product of the electric and magnetic fields.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Poynting}{\f21\fs18  vector\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. Given a list of 20th-century events, identify the year in which they occured on a 10-5 basis.\par 
1. (10) The U.S. agreed on February 12 to help train the South Vietnamese army.\par 
(5) On December 1, Rosa Parks refused to give her seat to a white man on a bus in Montgomery, Alabama.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1955}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10) On August 28, Pigasus nominated for President of the United States.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5) Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1968}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10) On August 3, federal air traffic controllers began an illegal nationwide strike.\par 
(5) The Senate votes 99-0 to confirm Sandra Day O'Connor as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court on September 21.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1981}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. Identify these terms from sociology FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This the system of societal norms that limit choices of marriage partners to those of a suitable social class.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Endogamy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This is a fast growing urban area outside the old ring of suburbs.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Exurb}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. A study of a population at intervals over a large period of time, a micro-version of this would be Michael Apted's Up series of films.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Longitudinal}{\f21\fs18  Research\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 20. Current events and ACF don't mix, right? Wrong! 
For 5 points each and a 5 point bonus for putting them in order, starting from the beginning of 1998, and continuing to the end of 1999, name the men who have served as prime ministers under Boris Yeltsin.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Viktor }{\f21\fs18\ul Chernomyrdin}{\f21\fs18 , Sergei }{\f21\fs18\ul Kiriyenko}{\f21\fs18 , Yevgeny }{\f21\fs18\ul Primakov}{\f21\fs18 , Sergei }{\f21\fs18\ul Stepashin}{\f21\fs18 , Vladimir }{\f21\fs18\ul Putin}{\f21\fs18 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 Identify these characters from Asimov's Foundation series for ten points each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. He was born in the 11988th year of the Galactic Era and died in 12,069. The dates are more commonly given as -79 to 1 Foundation Era. 
Born to middle-class parents on Helicon, Arcturus sector, he early showed amazing ability in mathematics.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hari}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Seldon}{\f21\fs18  (accept either)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. "Never let your sense of morals prevent you from doing what is right" and "Violence is the last refuge of the incompetent" were the mottos of this Mayor who prevented Anacreon fro
m annexing Terminus and used a pseudo-religious scientific order to conquer nearby kingdoms.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Salvor}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Hardin}{\f21\fs18  (accept either)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This mutant-being nearly destroyed the Seldon plan, but was defeated by the one person who he didn't mentally control, Bayta Darrell. What a relief!\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Mule}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 Interstate geography, it's fantastic! Given the start and end locations, identify the two interstate highways you would use to make the trip. For example, if you start in Shreveport LA and end in Tampa FL, you would use I-20 and I-75. 
Note that these are not necessarily the shortest routes but the routes requiring using exactly two interstate highways. Five points per interstate correct.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. San Diego CA to Baltimore MD\par 
\tab Answer: I-15 and I-70\par 
2. St. Louis MO to San Francisco CA\par 
\tab Answer: I-55 and I-80\par 
3. Phoenix AZ to Nashville TN\par 
\tab Answer: I-10 and I-65\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 It's been fourteen years since Uranus was last probed. No, the PLANET! Answer the following questions for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5) Identify the craft that flew by Uranus in January 1986, just days before the Challenger explosion.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Voyager 2\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10) Identify the two English writers whose fictional characters lended their names to the moons of Uranus.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Alexander Pope  William Shakespeare\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15) Uranus had been previously observed by a English astronomer in 1690 while making a catalog of stars using his telescope. 
Identify the astronomer who had named Uranus "34 Tauri," mistaking it for a star, but made no mistake in providing Isaac Newton data needed to verify his theory of gravitation.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John Flamsteed\par 
}}