{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere 
\pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
Tossups by Swarthmore and UCLA A\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. It featured the last gun duel between battle ships, and was the occasion for the signal \ldblquote Where is third fleet? The world wonders.\rdblquote  Warships sunk during the battle included the U.S.S. }{\i\f21\fs18 Princeton}{
\f21\fs18  and the super-battleship }{\i\f21\fs18 Musashi}{\f21\fs18 
. At one point Japanese battleships were forty miles from a virtually unprotected landing force when they inexplicably withdrew. FTP, name this battle, the last major engagement during World War II between the Americans and the Japanese, that was fought in
 October 1944 when the Japanese contested the American landing on an island in the Philippines.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Leyte Gulf}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on just }{\f21\fs18\ul Leyte}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Beginning his most famous work in 1884, he based his studies on the earlier work of van\rquote 
t Hoff concerning the importance of three-dimensional structure in atoms and its effect on optical activity. Synthesizing the first available isolated samples, he showed that the best known types contained six carbon atoms and that the each different arran
gement led to a different polarization when light was shown through the sample. This led him to develop the L and D series for the stereochemical configuration of sugars and allowed him to predict future isomers. FTP, name this chemist, winner of the Nobel
 Prize in 1902. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Emil Hermann }{\f21\fs18\ul Fischer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. Inspired by a conversation its composer shared with his grandmother, the composer remarked of it, "Not a day goes by without my using that piece in my life and work." It premiered in 1952, performed by David Tudor in Woodstock, New York, and it is divid
ed into three movements, each marked by the word "Tacet" and its respective length of time. Its composer considered it only a partial success since even when he performed it in an anechoic chamber he could st
ill hear his heart beating. FTP identify this minimalist work for piano by John Cage. \line \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul 4}{\i\f21\fs18 ' }{\i\f21\fs18\ul 33}{\i\f21\fs18 "}{\f21\fs18  (}{\i\f21\fs18\ul Four Minutes and Thirty-Three Seconds}{\f21\fs18 ) 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
4. He was a conscientious objector during World War I, and when asked what he would do if a German soldier were raping his sister, he replied "I should attempt to interpose my body." His lovers included his cousin Duncan Grant and John Maynard Keynes, and 
he was part of a menage a quatre which included Francis Marshall, Ralph Partridge, and Dora Carrington. FTP, name this member of the Bloomsbury Group, the author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Portraits in Miniature}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Elizabeth and Essex}{
\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Eminent Victorians}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Lytton }{\f21\fs18\ul Strachey}{\f21\fs18  (STRAY-chee) \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
5. If this day is dry and fair, then winter weather will return; if it is wet and cold, then winter is almost over. Originally called Imbolc in British pagan traditions, this celebration of fertility was unsuccessfully adapted to a day of purification by t
he Catholic Church, and survives today as Groundhog Day. FTP, name this February 2nd cross-quarter day, also known as a festival of lights. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Candlemas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
6. When this effect was first thought of, in 1892, it was just an "a priori" explanation for the Michelson-Morley null result. However, Einstein produced a relativistic explanation of it. Although it fits perfectly with theory, it is hard to verify experim
entally, because of the difficulty in securing an object of appreciable length that also moves at a fast enough speed. FTP, name this relativistic shrinking of longitudinal length, named for a Dutch physicist.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lorentz}{\f21\fs18 -FitzGerald Contraction\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
7. It is the title of a 1934 drawing in which the wife of the artist appears as the assailant, and his mistress, Marie-Therese Walter, as the title victim. Besides the carving knife, a pair of darts symbolizing the horns of a bull impales the reclining fig
ure. The more famous work of this title is a painting in which the name of the artist appears on a box in the lower right, and before a plain background lies the title character, holding a qui
ll in his right hand and a blood-stained letter in his left. FTP, give the name shared by these works of art, one by Pablo Picasso, the other a 1793 painting by Jacques-Louis David (dah-VEED). \line \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul 
Death of Marat}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. She was working as a librarian at McGill in 1964 when she published her first novel, }{\i\f21\fs18 If Morning Ever Comes}{\f21\fs18 . In the next decade, she wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 The Clock Winder}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 
Celestial Navigation}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Waiting for Caleb}{\f21\fs18 , but it was 1982's }{\i\f21\fs18 Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant}{\f21\fs18  that made her famous. FTP, ident
ify this novelist, who relocated to Baltimore in 1967, best known for }{\i\f21\fs18 Saint Maybe}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Breathing Lessons}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Accidental Tourist}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Anne }{\f21\fs18\ul Tyler\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 9. During this dynasty, the devastation caused to the old capital Chang\rquote 
an necessitated the later rulers of it to govern from Luoyang. Originally founded by Liu (Lyo) Bang, it took its name from the western kingdom that Liu had ruled before he became emper
or. The reign of this dynasty was interrupted for fourteen years by Wang Mang, while its fall led to the three kingdoms period. FTP, name this dynasty that gives its name to ethnic Chinese, lasting from 206 BC to 220 AD.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Han}{\f21\fs18  Dynasty\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
10. Memory is stored one-dimensionally without segmentation, and there is no distinction between instructions and data. There are no floating-point numbers, and data are stored in binary format. There is no indirect or indexed addressing. Three registers a
re used for arithmetic, and alternates instruction and execution cycles. FTP, name this computer architecture, named for the mathematician who also established the standard formulation for quantum mechanics and proved the minimax theorem in game theory. 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Von Neumann}{\f21\fs18  architecture (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Von Neumann}{\f21\fs18  computer)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
11. This early rap group has long been championed by acts such as Public Enemy and the Beastie Boys, who cite them as a major influence, a status attained despite having never released a full album. Their output consists of a series of singles released in 
the early 1980\rquote s on the independent Enjoy label, none of which sold well. They subsequently broke up to pursue solo careers, and their lead vocalist went on to one of the most successful hip-hop careers of the late 1980\rquote 
s. FTP, name this rap trio, whose songs included \ldblquote The New Rap Language\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Body Rock,\rdblquote  and was fronted by Kool Moe Dee.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Treacherous Three}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. After the success of this book, pilgrims to the church depicted in "Hughley Steeple" were dismayed to discover that not only did it not have a graveyard full of suicides, it didn't even have a st
eeple. Featuring such poems as "The Welsh Marshes," "The Day of Battle," and "The Immortal Part," its longest poem states that "malt does more than Milton can / To justify God's ways to man." FTP, name this 1896 work, which includes "Loveliest of trees, th
e cherry now" and "To An Athlete Dying Young," a collection of verse by A. E. Housman. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Shropshire Lad\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 13. Lesser-known works by him include }{\i\f21\fs18 The Man versus the State}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Essays: Scientific, Political and Speculative}{\f21\fs18  in three volumes. Born in 18
20, his early influences were Bentham and Lamarck. He proposed a theory of evolution in 1855 and enthusiastically embraced the work of Darwin. FTP, name this pioneering sociologist, the author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Social Statics}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 
Principles of Psychology}{\f21\fs18 , a Social Darwinist who coined the phrase \ldblquote survival of the fittest.\rdblquote  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Herbert }{\f21\fs18\ul Spencer\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. In 1366 AD, their appearance was believed by the Portuguese to signal the end of the world. In 902 AD, Chinese astronomers noted that the "stars fell like rain", and the Eg
yptians declared the year to be a "year of stars". The source appears to be the passing of the comet Tempel-Tuttle around Novemeber 17th each year. FTP, name this meteor shower appearing to originate in the constellation of Leo.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Leonid}{\f21\fs18  meteor shower\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
15. In the state legislature, he led a caucus called the Long Nine who logrolled to move the state capital from Vandalia, and 12 years later, he was offered the governorship of the Oregon Territory. That was after he had stepped aside to let his fr
iend Stephen Logan run for his seat in Congress. In Congress he had earned the nickname "Spotty" for proposing the Spot Resolutions, and after he left, he held no elective office for more than a decade. FTP, name this man who returned to politics in 1858 i
n a losing senate bid against Stephen Douglas, two years before being elected to a higher office. \line \tab Answer: Abraham }{\f21\fs18\ul Lincoln}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 16. His early works include collections of poetry like }{\i\f21\fs18 Man: A Broad Garden}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Last May}{\f21\fs18 , as well as a one-act play, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Owners of the Keys}{\f21\fs18 
. The author of the critical works }{\i\f21\fs18 Testaments Betrayed}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Art of the Novel}{\f21\fs18 , he moved to France in 1975, a year before }{\i\f21\fs18 The Farewell Party}{\f21\fs18 
 appeared. FTP, name this novelist of }{\i\f21\fs18 Life Is Elsewhere}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Joke}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Book of Laughter and Forgetting}{\f21\fs18 , a Czech author best known for 1984's }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Unbearable Lightness of Being}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Milan }{\f21\fs18\ul Kundera}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 17. It rises in southwest Siskyou County and flows generally south until it empties into Suisun Bay, passing through the small towns of Dunsmuir, Princeton
, and Colusa. Having such tributaries as the Feather and Butte Rivers, it passes through the city of Redding and the large metropolis that shares its name, where the American river flows into it. Sharing its delta with the San Joaquin River, Shasta Lake al
so sits along its length. FTP, name this river that drains the northern half of California\rquote s Central Valley and shares its name with a state capital.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sacramento}{\f21\fs18  River\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. An instructor at the Institute for Psychoanalysis in Berlin from 1920 to 19
32, this psychiatrist immigrated to the U.S. and served as associate director of the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis for two years, taught at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute from 1934 to 1941 and helped to found the American Institute for Psycho
analysis. This German-born thinker founded a neo-Freudian school of psychoanalysis based on the conclusion that neuroses are the result of emotional conflicts arising from childhood experiences, an emphasis on the social factors that she believed caused "b
asic anxiety." FTP, name this psychiatrist, author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Our Inner Conflicts}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Neurosis and Human Growth}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Karen }{\f21\fs18\ul Horney}{\f21\fs18  (hor-NAY)\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
19. In 1194, it came under Hohenstaufen rule after the reign of King William the Bad, its last Norman king. In the 1280s it selected its first Aragonese king, Pedro III, and though it separated from Aragon in 1292 it remained associated with the Spanish Cr
own until the War of Spanish Succession. FTP, name this island kingdom of the central Mediterranean, which became part of Italy after being invaded by Guiseppe Garibaldi and features the cities of Messina and Palermo.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the kingdom of }{\f21\fs18\ul Sicily}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
20. The title character used to argue with Harold Wilson about education, and can't forget Harold's saying that he studied Latin like the violin because he liked it. He refuses to be made ashamed to please his brother, which is why Mary lets him in when sh
e comes up from Rowe's to find him huddled against the barn-door fast asleep, even though her husband Warren can't afford to
 pay him wages for the haying. FTP, identify this poem, first published in 1914, in which Silas expires before he can help ditch the meadow, a work by Robert Frost.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Death of the Hired Man}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
1. Numa Pompilius is said by Plutarch to have erected a brass statue of him as the most valiant man in Greece. He conquered Byzantium in 409 BC but was ejected by the Spartan admiral Lysander four years later. Ending his days in Phrygia, he had earlier sou
ght refuge with the Persian governor Tissaphernes. Raised by his uncle Pericles, he abrogated the peace with Sparta in 415 B.C. The last speaker in Plato\rquote s }{\i\f21\fs18 Symposium}{\f21\fs18  and one of Timon\rquote s true friends in Shakespeare
\rquote s }{\i\f21\fs18 Timon of Athens}{\f21\fs18 , FTP name this Athenian general who commanded a disastrous expedition during the Peloponesian Wars.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Alcibiades}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 2. He was sent by the Venetian state to Constantinople in 1479 in response to Sultan Muhammad II's request for a good portraitist. Some of his most beautiful works date from his year's sojourn there, 
including a portrait of the sultan and a watercolor portrait of a boy scribe which reflects the influence of the Islamic painting style. Most of the latter were destroyed by a fire in the Doges' Palace in 1579, but three }{\i\f21\fs18 
Miracles of the True Cross}{\f21\fs18 
 survive to establish their character. Set in contemporary Venice, they are pictorially somewhat dry but valuable as circumstantially accurate records of the city and its people in his time. FTP, name this Venetian painter, the son of Jacopo and brother of
 Giovanni.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Gentile }{\f21\fs18\ul Bellini}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. Separated by a strait of the same name from the Leizhou Bandao peninsula, indigenous tribes make up about one third of the island\rquote 
s population, and ethnic Chinese make up the rest. It was occupied by Japan in 1939, after being a Chinese possession since
 111 B.C., and was taken by the Chinese communists in 1950. Formerly belonging to Guangdong provice, it became its own province in 1988. Its capital, largest city and primary seaport is Haikou, located on the northern coast. FT
P, name this largest island controlled by the People\rquote s Republic of China, bordered on the west by the Gulf of Tonkin.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hainan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

Don't go outside to look for this element: it's never found free in nature, and only constitutes a few millionths of the Earth's crust. A few medicinal plants, such as aloe vera and ginseng, contain high concentrations, and researchers have reported that c
ompounds containing this element may help control cancer, AIDS, high cholesterol, and pain. Its oxide has a high index of
 refraction, and is used frequently in wide-angle camera lenses. Because it can be purified better than any other semiconductor, its electronic properties have been studied in detail. FTP, name this element, situated after gallium in the periodic }{
\f21\fs18 table and named for a European }{\f21\fs18 country.\par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul germanium}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Swarthmore and UCLA A\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Identify these modern Japanese authors FTP each. \line 1. He won the prestigious Akutagawa Prize at age 23 for his story }{\i\f21\fs18 The Catch}{\f21\fs18 , and his first novel was }{\i\f21\fs18 Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids}{
\f21\fs18 . His recent novels such as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Silent Cry}{\f21\fs18  are influenced by the birth of his mentally handicapped son. \line \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Oe}{\f21\fs18  Kenzaburo \line 
2. He belonged to the neosensationalist movement which rejected realism for a more lyrical, impressionistic style. His novels include }{\i\f21\fs18 Snow Country}{\f21\fs18 
, the story of a geisha and a self-centered businessman, and in 1972 he became the first Japanese Nobel laureate for literature. \line \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kawabata}{\f21\fs18  Yasunari \line 3. His early stories such as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Tattooer}
{\f21\fs18  are influenced by the French symbolists and Edgar Allan Poe. His novel }{\i\f21\fs18 Some Prefer Nettles}{\f21\fs18  compares an unhappy marriage to changing cultural values in Japan, but his }{\i\f21\fs18 Diary of a Mad Old Man}{\f21\fs18 
 was more apolitical and erotic. \line \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tanizaki}{\f21\fs18  Junichiro \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Given a brief description, name these forms of astronomical radiation.\par 
1. This is nearly uniform isotropic low-temperature microwave radiation that permeates all of space.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cosmic microwave background}{\f21\fs18  radiation\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Typically associated with supernova remnants, this radiation is due to the relativistic acceleration of electrons in a strong magnetic field. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul synchrotron}{\f21\fs18  radiation\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. NASA's 1991 Compton Observatory added quasars to the list of the stellar bodies that are a source of these.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul gamma}{\f21\fs18  rays\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Identify the following late nineteenth century Secretaries of State, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Grant\rquote s secretary of state, he mediated disputes with Britain relating to the damages stemming from British-built raiders during the Civil War as well as tensions stemming from the Cuban revolt against Spain.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Hamilton }{\f21\fs18\ul Fish}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The Secretary of State under Benjamin Harrison, he had been one of the leading Republican candidates for president in 1880 and ran against Cleveland in 1884.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: James G. }{\f21\fs18\ul Blaine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. As part of McKinley\rquote s cabinet he initiated the Open Door policy and negotiated with Britain about issues relating to the future Panama Canal.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John M. }{\f21\fs18\ul Hay}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Identify these Baldwins from clues on a 10-5 basis.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) He made his television debut in 1987's }{\i\f21\fs18 The Prodigious Hickey}{\f21\fs18 , and went on to appear in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Young Riders}{\f21\fs18  as Buffalo Bill Cody.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) The youngest of the four brothers, he appeared in the movie }{\i\f21\fs18 Threesome}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Stephen}{\f21\fs18  Baldwin\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) He worked as a waiter at Studio 54 before getting his break on the television show }{\i\f21\fs18 The Doctors}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) He's Mr. Kim Basinger.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Alec}{\f21\fs18  Baldwin\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) Before acting, he worked as a model for Calvin Klein jeans and as a Congressional aide to Representative Thomas Downey.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) He has appeared in }{\i\f21\fs18 Born on the Fourth of July}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Backdraft}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul William}{\f21\fs18  Baldwin\par 
\par 
5. Name these mythological creatures FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In medieval and Middle Eastern legend, this creature possesses the head and wings of an eagle and the body of a lion.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Griffin}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Gryphon}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept Sphinx)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. In mythology, this is most likely a fire-breathing monster with a lion's head, a goat's body, and a serpent's tail. But in general, it is almost any monster with many incongruous body parts.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chimera}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Sometimes incorporated into fantasy novels, this legendary monster possesses a man's head, a lion's body, and the tail of a dragon or scorpion.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Manticore}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. Given a brief description, identify the virus FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. A member of the filovirus genus, incidents involving this virus are also called hemorragic fever.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ebola}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. One of the variola viruses, this virus was being inoculated against with limited success as early as 1713.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul smallpox}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. A species of Herpetoviridae discovered in 1964, this virus has been associated with Burkitt's lymphoma and with nasopharyngeal carcinoma, but is usually the cause of mononucleosis. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Epstein-Barr}{\f21\fs18  viruses\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 7. Identify these mountains in Africa, for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This mountain, the highest in Africa, is located in northeastern Tanzania, near the Kenyan border.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Mount }{\f21\fs18\ul Kilimanjaro}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) This mountain range separates the coasts of Morocco and Algeria from the Sahara desert.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Atlas}{\f21\fs18  Mountains\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This mountain range comprises much of southeastern South Africa, as well as most of Lesotho.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Drakensburg}{\f21\fs18  Mountains\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 8. Identify these contemporary playwrights from works on a 10-5 basis. In each case, the five point clue will be a Pulitzer Prize winning drama.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Any Woman Can't}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Hard Sell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Heidi Chronicles}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Wendy }{\f21\fs18\ul Wasserstein}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Loving Daniel Boone}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Traveler in the Dark}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 'Night, Mother}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Marsha }{\f21\fs18\ul Norman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Control Freak}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Miss Firecracker Contest\par 
}{\f21\fs18 (5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Crimes of the Heart}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Beth }{\f21\fs18\ul Henley}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
9. Given a description, name the metamorphic rocks, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. A component of lava, it is lighter than basalt and is usually a pale shade of green, red or gray. Pumice is produced when this type of rock contains gas bubbles.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ryholite}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This rock exemplifies cleavage into broad, thin layers. Good grades of it are sometimes used in roofing. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul slate}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Unlike sandstone, this rock fractures across, rather than along, the line of cementing material between its constituent grains of sand. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul quartzite}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 10. Identify these battles of the War of Spanish Succession, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This 1704 battle was the greatest victory of the Duke of Marlborough and marked the beginning of the decline of French military dominance.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Blenheim}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The French were forced to withdraw out of the Austrian Netherlands in the 1706 battle, another victory of the Duke of Marlborough.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Ramillies}{\f21\fs18 -Offus\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Renewal of peace negotiations were brought about by the French defeat in this 1709 battle that prompted Louis XIV to exclaim \ldblquote Has God forgotten all I have done for Him?\rdblquote \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Malplaquet}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \line 11. FTP each identify these operas from the proper names of their title characters. You will receive 5 points if you need the names of their composers. \line 1. (10 points) Violetta Valery \line (5 points) Giuseppe Verdi \line 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 La }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Traviata}{\f21\fs18  \line 2. (10 points) Marie, daughter of Kruschina and Kathinka \line (5 points) Bedrich Smetana \line \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bartered Bride}{\f21\fs18  \line 
3. (10 points) Octavian, the Count Rofrano \line (5 points) Richard Strauss \line \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 Der }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rosenkavalier}{\f21\fs18  \line \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. FTP each, identify each of these hurricanes.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In August of 1969, this category 5 hurricane devastated the Gulf Coast of Louisiana and Mississippi with winds of up to 200 miles per hour.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Hurricane }{\f21\fs18\ul Camille}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. A rather weak hurricane, barely able to maintain category 1 status, this hurricane that hit the panhandle of Florida in June of 1972 is not known for its winds but for the devastating flooding it produced.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Hurricane }{\f21\fs18\ul Agnes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Though not named for this year's tournament editor, this late twentieth-century hurricane is known as the costliest natural disaster in United States history.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Hurricane }{\f21\fs18\ul Andrew}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 13. Answer these questions about an autobiographical work, for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) In this work, first published in two parts in }{\i\f21\fs18 The London Magazine}{\f21\fs18  in 1821, we learn that the author took as many as 150 grains a day of the titular substance.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Confessions of an English Opium-Eater}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) Name the author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Confessions of an English Opium-Eater}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f21\fs18\ul De Quincey}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) In 1845, De Quincey published this "sequel" to the }{\i\f21\fs18 Confessions}{\f21\fs18  in }{\i\f21\fs18 Blackwell's Magazine}{\f21\fs18 , and he incorporated material from this work into later revisions of the }{
\i\f21\fs18 Confessions}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Suspiria }{\i\f21\fs18\ul de Profundis}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sighs from the Depths}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. Identify these later emperors of the Roman Empire, for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) This emperor, who reigned from 361 to 363, was effective militarily, though his efforts to bring back paganism flopped utterly.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Julian}{\f21\fs18  the Apostate\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) His father Orestes named him emperor when Julius Nepos fled in 475, but he was overthrown a year later.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Romulus }{\f21\fs18\ul Augustulus}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Augustus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) Reigning from 253 to 268, this man defeated the Germans at Naissus in 268, the last major Roman victory. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Publius Licinius Egnatius }{\f21\fs18\ul Gallienus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 15. FTP each identify these neoclassical sculptors. \line 1. He was born in Vermont, but in 1837 he moved to Florence where he lived for the rest of his life. Known primarily for his portrait busts, his sculpture }{\i\f21\fs18 
Greek Slave}{\f21\fs18  depicts a nude woman in chains leaning against a pillar. \line \tab Answer: Hiram }{\f21\fs18\ul Powers}{\f21\fs18  \line 2. Born in 1757, this Italian sculpted the }{\i\f21\fs18 Venus Victrix}{\f21\fs18 
, a nude of the sister of Napoleon, as well as a large marble nude of Napoleon, himself. His other works include the tomb of Pope Clement XIV and }{\i\f21\fs18 Perseus with the Head of Medusa}{\f21\fs18 . \line \tab Answer: Antonio }{\f21\fs18\ul Canova}{
\f21\fs18  \line 3. This Dane founded the neoclassical movement in sculpture and was a teacher to Canova. His works include the }{\i\f21\fs18 Lion of Lucerne}{\f21\fs18 
 and the tomb of Pope Pius VII. Many of his smaller works are housed in a namesake museum in Copenhagen. \line \tab Answer: Bertel }{\f21\fs18\ul Thorvaldsen}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
16. Given a description, name the physical effect, FTP each. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. An X-ray scatters off of a slowly moving electron, losing energy to the electron.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Compton}{\f21\fs18  Effect\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The magnetization of ferromagnetic substances lags behind the field. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hysteresis}{\f21\fs18  Effect\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. A constant magnetic field is applied to a transparent gaseous medium producing a birefringence such that the vapor has different indices of refraction in different directions.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Voigt}{\f21\fs18  Effect\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 17. Answer these questions about those wacky Mennonites, for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (15 points) Mennonites were first known as \ldblquote Obbenites\rdblquote  in honor of this priest, who baptized Menno Simons in 1536.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Obbe }{\f21\fs18\ul Philips}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Mennonites are members of this radical Protestant sect, whose first congregation was founded in Zurich in 1525 by Conrad Grebel.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Anabaptist}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (5 points) The most famous Mennonites are these conservative folk, followers of Jacob Amman.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Amish}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 18. Identify the following court cases from the 1920s and 1930s, FTP each. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. In this 1925 case, the Supreme Court ruled that the 14}{\f21\fs18\up8 th}{\f21\fs18  Amendment required that states follow the protections of freedoms of speech and press.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gitlow v. New York}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The Supreme Court ruled the National Industrial Recovery Act unconstitutional in this 1935 case.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Schechter}{\f21\fs18  Poultry Corporation v. }{\f21\fs18\ul U}{\f21\fs18 nited }{\f21\fs18\ul S}{\f21\fs18 tates (prompt on "sick chicken")\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. In a reversal of previous ruling striking down New Deal legislation, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Wagner Act in this 1937 decision.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul NLRB}{\f21\fs18  (or National Labor Relations Board) v. }{\f21\fs18\ul Jones}{\f21\fs18  & Laughlin Steel\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 19. FTP each, name the probability distribution based on a description.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Named for the man who proved the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra, this is the bell curve, which all distributions of finite variance approach as time increases without bound.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gaussian}{\f21\fs18  (GOW-see-an) Distribution or }{\f21\fs18\ul Normal}{\f21\fs18  Distribution\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Named for the instigator of rigor in French mathematics, this is the distribution of the tangent of a uniformly chosen angle. The Central Limit Theorem doesn't apply to it, since its variance is undefined.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cauchy}{\f21\fs18  (koh-SHEE) Distribution\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Named after the discoverer of the Law of Large Numbers, this distribution assigned probability "p" to the number 1, and probability "1 minus p" to the number 0.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bernoulli}{\f21\fs18  (ber-NOO-lee) Distribution\par 
\par 
20. Name these works of modern decadent literature, FTP each. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This quarterly was published in London between 1894 and 1897, and featured work by Aubrey Beardsley, Max Beerbohm, and Henry James. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Yellow Book}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The protagonist of this 1884 Huysmans (wees-MAHNS) novel is Des Esseintes (days ess-ANT), a near-recluse who soothes his aesthetic sensibilities in a carefully-designed cottage. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Against the Grain}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Against Nature}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul A rebours}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This trilogy of novels by Maurice Barr\'8fs (bar-ESS) includes }{\i\f21\fs18 Under the Eyes of the Barbarians}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 A Free Man}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Garden of Berenice}{\f21\fs18 
, and is considered a landmark of French decadence. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Cult of the Ego}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Le }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Culte du moi}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 FTP each, name the American city in or near which each of the following television programs takes place.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Family Ties}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Columbus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 One Day at a Time}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Indianapolis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Eight is Enough}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sacramento}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 Answer the following about the geography of Central America, FTP each.\par 
1. The only good harbor on Central America\rquote s Pacific Coast, Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador border this gulf.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Gulf of }{\f21\fs18\ul Fonseca}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. The Caribbean coasts of Honduras and Nicaragua, once occupied by the British, are known by this name.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Mosquito}{\f21\fs18  Coast\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. The Panama Canal goes through this lake before emptying into the Caribbean.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Lake }{\f21\fs18\ul Gatun}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
FTP each, name these amino acids from descriptions.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. The brain uses this amino acid to make norepinephrine, and some army researchers have been testing its use to improve physical performance.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tyrosine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Bakers mix this amino acid into dough to speed kneading, while food manufacturers use it to sustain their foods' vitamin C content. It constitutes a good 10% of human skin.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cysteine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This amino acid was used in the United States in sleeping pills until it caused an outbreak of a rare blood disease in 1989. It is a precursor of niacin and serotonin.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tryptophan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}