{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s255 \f22 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 1;}{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext1 Word4095Null;}{\s2 \f22 
\sbasedon0\snext2 Body Text;}}{\info{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
Tossups by Texas A&M and Wisconsin\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Early in his life, the protagonist of this novel sees a woman named Uiko shot by her lover, a deserter from the Japanese army. He later befriends a student named Kashiwagi who compares his own clubf
oot to this character's stuttering. On a trip with Kashiwagi and two girls, he begins making out with one of the girls, but is interrupted by a vision of a building. To him, this building, the temple in which he is an acolyte, represents true beauty, and i
t dominates him throughout the book. Finally, after making love to a woman he once saw squeeze breast milk into her lover's tea, he burns it to the ground. FTP, name this novel by Yukio Mishima.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Temple of the Golden Pavilion}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Kinkakuji}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. T
he brain of this class of animals is unusual in that the cerebellum is reduced to a mere band. Some, such as Siredon mexicanum, become sexually active at the larval stage. The adult heart consists of a muscular ventricle and two auricles, but in earlier st
ages the circulation resembles that of fish. Except for caecilians, which have small scales in the outer folds of the body, their skin is smooth and moist, with numerous glands secreting a fluid that is often irritating and poisonous. FTP, name this class 
of animals which includes hellbenders, axolotls, sirens, and toads.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Amphibian}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. He was born in Maryland in 1777 and married Francis Scott Key's sister in 1806. He was appointed Andrew Jackson's second attorney general in 1831, but when Jackson attempted to make him secretary of the treasury in 1833, he became the first presidential
 cabinet nominee to be rejected by the Senate. Three years later, despite the opposition of Henry Clay, John Calhoun, and Daniel Webster, he was accepted by Congress a
s John Marshall's successor on the Supreme Court. FTP, name this controversial chief justice most remembered for writing the majority opinion in the 1857 Dred Scott decision.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Roger }{\f21\fs18\ul Taney}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4. Born in Idaho, as a student at Weesur High School he wrote and directed a high school musical called }{\i\f21\fs18 Goodbye Weesur, Hello Broadway}{\f21\fs18 
. He later went to New York hoping to direct on Broadway, but wound up running only a small group of players in New Jersey. To supplement his income, he became a substitute teacher,
 and after the departure of Vernon Thomas, spent four years on the faculty as history teacher in the Individual Honors Program. At Fillmore High, his students included Darlene, Eric, Dennis, Arvid, and Janice. FTP, name this fictional teacher, played by Ho
ward Hesseman on }{\i\f21\fs18 Head of the Class}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Charlie }{\f21\fs18\ul Moore}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5. As a young man he collected several enemies, two of whom were Danglars, his first mate when he wanted to be captain, and Ferdinand, whose love would not marry him because she wanted to remain t
rue to this character even when he was out at sea. These enemies decided to set a trap for him one day, and he was arrested and brought before Villefort, a magistrate who knew he was innocent but threw him in prison anyway. He was a prisoner in the Ch\'89
teau d'If for fourteen years before finally taking the place of a dead man to escape. FTP, name this character, who after amassing his fortune goes by the name of the Count of Monte Cristo.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Edmond }{\f21\fs18\ul Dantes}{\f21\fs18  (accept the }{\f21\fs18\ul Count of Monte Cristo}{\f21\fs18  before it is mentioned)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
6. After studying at Rutgers and the University of Chicago, he received his Ph.D. from Columbia University and joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1946. Together with his wife Rose he advocated a negative income tax to supersede centralized 
social welfare services, which he claimed hurt traditional values of individualism and useful work. His works include }{\i\f21\fs18 Capitalism and Freedom}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Monetary Trends of the United States and the United Kingdom}{\f21\fs18 
 and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Monetary History of the United States}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, name this winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize in Economics.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Milton }{\f21\fs18\ul Friedman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
7. August 11, 3114 BCE has been computed as the beginning date for this civilization's calendar. They used a vigesimal number system and knew the use of zero. Sacrifices to the rain god Chac-mool were made by hurling virgins down a well. The same was alleg
edly done to the 12th century ruler Kukulkan. The great structures of their classical period include Bonampak, Palenque, and Tikal, which contains a pyramid 229 feet high. FTP, name this civilization, the most famous ruin of which is Chichen Itza.\tab 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Maya}{\f21\fs18 n\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
8. He was raised by the Naiades on Mount Ida. After he rejected the nymph Salmacis, she caught him bathing in a spring and embraced him forcibly, clinging to him so tightly that their bodies fused into one. FTP, name this figure from Greek myth who took on
 the worst traits of both male and female beings, but none of the good ones, who gave his name to any creature having both male and female sex organs.\tab \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hermaphroditus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
9. The son of a city official in Lyons, one of his inventions was the astatic needle, which made possible the modern galvanometer. He was also the first to show that two parallel conductors carrying currents travelling in the same direction attract each ot
her, and, if travelling in the opposite direction, repel each other. His electrodynamic theory and his views on the relationship of electricity and magnetism were published in 1826 in }{\i\f21\fs18 Theory of Electrodynamic Phenomena}{\f21\fs18 
. FTP, name this French scientist, eponym of the unit of electric current.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Andr\'8e Marie }{\f21\fs18\ul Amp\'8fre}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
10. It was translated into Latin by the brother of Cardinal Newman. The poem's title character was raised by his grandmother Nokomis after his father, the West Wind, offended his mother Wenonah, and he ends up in the Isles of the Blessed after his wife die
s. FTP, identify this narrative poem in trochaic meter, based on ethnographic work of Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, which tells the story of an Ojibwa indian chief, an 1855 work of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The Song of }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hiawatha}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
11. During his time in Oklahoma, he came to believe that the United States had mistreated the Native Americans, and he later reorganized the Bureau of Indian Affairs. When his wife invited a black woman to the White House and the Texas legislature demanded
 his impeachment, he said, "One of the consolations of organized religion is that it provides a hot hell for the Texas legislature." As Secretary of Commerce, he denied a radio frequency to a g
roup wishing to announce the imminent end of the world, saying if there really was only a month left, they had better ways to spend their money. FTP, name this President, who also said that he was the only man of such economic genius as to have a worldwide
 depression named for him.\tab \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Herbert }{\f21\fs18\ul Hoover\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 12. This hormone is secreted by the posterior pituitary gland, and a deficiency in it leads to diabetes insipidus. Produced by cells in the hypothalamus, it does its work in the kidney, where it makes th
e walls of the renal tubules and collecting ducts more permeable to water so that more can be reabsorbed into the bloodstream. FTP, name this hormone, which controls the concentration of bodily fluids.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul antidiuretic}{\f21\fs18  hormone or }{\f21\fs18\ul ADH}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul vasopressin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
13. According to an apocryphal book of his acts, he was martyred after his preaching of celibacy created marital difficulties for one King Mazdai. Before this he had been commissioned as chief architect for the palace of King Gundafar. After distributing t
h
e project funds to the poor, he was imprisoned, but redeemed when the king's brother saw the palace this apostle had constructed in heaven. According to the Letter of Prester John, his uncorrupted hand gave communion once a year in India, which he converte
d, despite the fact that the gospel bearing his name was found in Egypt. FTP, name this apostle, concerning whose deeds scholars are as doubtful as he himself was about the Resurrection.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Saint }{\f21\fs18\ul Thomas}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 14. His father, Rudolph Virag, was born in Sz
ombathely, Hungary. His oldest son died in infancy, and he has not slept with his wife since. On the day of his friend Patty Dignam's funeral, he gets into a fight when someone insults his Jewish heritage, and subsequently goes to a beach where he stares o
f the skirts of one Gerty McDowell. He eventually meets a young student whom he takes to his home. That student, Stephen Dedalus, was the protagonist of an earlier work by the same author. FTP, these events form the June 16, 1904 odyssey of what James Joyc
e character?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Leopold }{\f21\fs18\ul Bloom}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
15. In 1948, he returned to his native country to lead the planning office created to rebuilt after World War II. Together with his first wife Aino Marsio, he designed furnishings for many of his buildings, often entirely of laminated wood. In 1935, they f
ounded Artek, a furnishing company. His works included the Villa Mairea and a new civic center for the island village of Saynatsalo made of brick and timber and set on a high terrace. FTP, name this architect of MIT's B
aker House and Helsinki's Finlandia House.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Alvar Henrik }{\f21\fs18\ul Aalto}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
16. The highest point in this nation is Phou Bia, just south of the Plain of Jars on the Plateau de Xiangkhoang. Its eastern border is formed by the Annamese Cordillera, which run until meeting the Boloven Plateau in the south. These highlands are the sour
ce of many rivers, including the Ou, Kadong, Wa, Kong, and Banghiang, and flow past cities such as Muang Huang, Saravan, Phongsali, and Pakxe into the Mekong, which forms the western b
oundary with Myanmar and Thailand. FTP, name this landlocked southeast Asian nation with a capital of Vientiane.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Laos}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
17. In this novel, you meet characters such as the convict Neil Sheldon, the secretary Laura Lyons, the neighbor with the telescope Mr. Frankland, Dr. James Mortimer, and Beryl. The story begins when Sir Charles dies and his nephew Sir Henry is about to mo
ve onto his estate. However, a curse upon the family is brought to life by Jack Stapleton, who is actually a relative of Sir Hen
ry and eventually captured by Sherlock Holmes. FTP, name this novel in which no one can cross the moor without being attacked by a supernatural beast.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hound of the Baskervilles}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
18. Heroes of this principality included the merchant Sadko and the giant Basil Buslaev. The high court of the posodnik had ten jurors, including one boyar and a commoner from each kontsy. Although the Council of Notables dominated, it was officially gover
ned by a veche, or town assembly, which accepted and dismissed th
e princes, a power gained with the expulsion of their hereditary ruler in 1136. In the 13th century, they defeated the Teutonic Knights at the Battle of the Ice, but in 1471 they surrendered to Ivan III of Moscow. FTP, name this Russian principality, whose
 most famous ruler was Alexander Nevsky.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Novgorod}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 19. First formulated in 1803, it is based on the idea that, in dilute solutions, solute molecules are bordered primarily by solvent molecules, and thus the probability of escape for a given solut
e molecule is independent of their total concentration. Therefore, the return rate from a gas above the solution will inevitably equal the rate of escape from the solution. Thus, for dilute solutions at equilibrium with a gas at very low pressure, the gas 
pressure will be proportional to the amount of dissolved gas. FTP, this states what relation, named for the 19th-century British chemist who discovered it?\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Henry}{\f21\fs18 's Law\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 20. 
Its famous arias include "Sgombra e la sacra selva" and "Guerra, guerra!"  Taken from a book by Giuseppe Romani, it ends with Pollio joining the title character in death after he refuses to renounce Adalgisa, a priestess of the temple of Irminsul.  FTP, id
entify this opera, which premiered in 1831, set during the Roman occupation of Gaul and centering on a high priestess of the Druids, a work of Vincenzo Bellini.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Norma}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 1. The theme was first embodied in murals and a poem
 in Paris's Church of the Holy Innocents before the crowning of King Charles VII. In 1485, the painter Guyot Marchant published a version in woodcuts and verse which circulated throughout Europe. Musical versions appear in the work of Liszt and Saint-Saens
, and a set of forty drawings on the subject was executed by Hans Holbein the Younger. FTP name this theme based on the popular belief that the dead rose as skeletons from their graves to tempt the living into a fatal dance.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Dance of Death}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Danse Macabre}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Totentanz}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
2. Sponsored by a Maryland representative and the Senator who would have been President had Andrew Johnson been removed, Abraham Lincoln called it "one very proper plan" and pledged assistance to any state wishing to adopt it. Nonetheless it earned a pocke
t veto, for while it agreed with Lincoln's plan in placing power in the hands of Unionists and not treating the seceded states as territories, he feared its requirement of a loyalty oath from a majority of citizens would threaten e
xisting governments in Louisiana and Arkansas. FTP, name this Reconstruction plan, passed in July 1864, which also required states to abolish slavery before readmission.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wade-Davis}{\f21\fs18  Bill\par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 
3. Following his service for the Union in the Civil War, he went west with a military expedition and eventually became editor of a San Francisco newspaper. During a brief sojourn in London, he published under the pseudonym "Dad Grile" stories from the maga
zines }{\i\f21\fs18 Figaro and Fun}{\f21\fs18  with the title }{\i\f21\fs18 Cobwebs from an Empty Skull}{\f21\fs18 
. After returning to the United States he worked for Hearst and wrote a column for the Sunday Examiner. He disappeared in Mexico in 1913, after publishing his most famous work, which he originally entitled the }{\i\f21\fs18 Cynic's Workbook}{\f21\fs18 
. FTP, name this author of the }{\i\f21\fs18 Devil's Dictionary}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Ambrose Gwinett }{\f21\fs18\ul Bierce}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Texas A&M and Wisconsin\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. FTP each, answer the following about an antebellum attempt at slave emancipation.\par 
1. In 1816, this organization was formed to encourage Blacks to return to Africa.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul A}{\f21\fs18 merican }{\f21\fs18\ul C}{\f21\fs18 olonization }{\f21\fs18\ul S}{\f21\fs18 ociety\par 
2. The ACS founded this colony in west Africa.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Liberia\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. This author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Thoughts on African Colonization}{\f21\fs18 
 argued that these efforts hindered emancipation by portraying Blacks as undesirable.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: William Lloyd }{\f21\fs18\ul Garrison}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. FTP each, answer the following questions about }{\i\f21\fs18 As You Like It}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. Rosalind falls in love with this son of Sir Rowland de Boys after she sees him win a wrestling competition.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Orlando}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. What false name does Rosalind use in the Forest of Arden?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ganymede}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. What lord attending Duke Senior makes a famous speech about the seven ages of man?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Jaques}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. For the stated number of points, name the following computer languages.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) Name this object-oriented language including keywords like \ldblquote virtual\rdblquote  and \ldblquote protected,\rdblquote 
 invented by Bjarne Stroustrup.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul C++}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept or prompt on "C")\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) The other object-oriented relative of C, it lost to C++ because it wasn\rquote t as compatible with legacy C code.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Objective-C}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) Commissioned by the Department of Defense in 1974, this is the required language for all software written for DOD and NATO \ldblquote 
mission-critical\rdblquote  applications.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ada}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
4. Identify the following islands or island groups FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. An English possession of 2,800 people, these islands, whose capital is Stanley, are comprised of an East Island and a West Island.  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Falkland}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. About the size of Washington, DC, this island group of 20,000 people is located halfway between New Zealand and Hawaii. Its capital is Avarua and its islands include Palmerston, Pukapuka, and Atiu. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cook}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. An overseas possession of France, this island of 700,000 people is located east of Madagascar. Creole is widely spoken, and all but one of its major cities is named for a saint, the exception being Ports des Galets (poor day gal-AY).
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul R\'8eunion}{\f21\fs18  Island\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5. Give the name of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court given a list of cases tried during his term, FTP each.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Pollock v. Farmers Loan and Trust Company}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Plessy v. Ferguson\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Melville W. }{\f21\fs18\ul Fuller}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Dennis v. United States}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Sweatt v. Painter}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Fred M. }{\f21\fs18\ul Vinson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Standard Oil Company of New Jersey v. United States}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Schenck v. United States}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Edward D. }{\f21\fs18\ul White\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 6. For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about }{\i\f21\fs18 The Rake\rquote s Progress}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
1. (5 points) This British artist did a series of engravings on the theme in the 1700s.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: William }{\f21\fs18\ul Hogarth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) This Russian composer wrote the 1951 opera }{\i\f21\fs18 The Rake\rquote s Progress}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Igor }{\f21\fs18\ul Stravinsky}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) Five points for one, and fifteen for both, name the two men who wrote the libretto to Stravinsky\rquote s opera.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Wystan Hugh }{\f21\fs18\ul Auden}{\f21\fs18  and Chester }{\f21\fs18\ul Kallman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7. FTP each, name the authors of these philosophical works.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Natural History of Religion}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: David }{\f21\fs18\ul Hume}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Philosophy of Arithmetic}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Cartesian Meditations}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Edmund }{\f21\fs18\ul Husserl}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Experience and Nature}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Democracy and Education}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Dewey}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 8. Given two volumes of an American literary trilogy, name the third volume FTP each. If you need the name of the trilogy as a whole, you'll only get five points.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Hamlet, The Mansion}{\f21\fs18 \tab \par 
(5 points) Snopes\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Town}{\i\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Titan}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Stoic}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) Cowperwood\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Financier}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Big Money}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The 42nd Parallel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) U.S.A.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul 1919}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 9. FTP each, name these membranes of the human body.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. Composed of many folds that occupy the spaces between abdominal organs, this supportive organ has major folds called the omentum and mesentery.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul peritoneum}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul peritoneal}{\f21\fs18  membrane\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. The collective name for the pia mater, arachnoid, and dura mater, it surrounds the brain and spinal chord.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul meninges}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
3. The body monitors the tug of gravity and helps maintain static equilibrium by sensing the shear between maculan hair cells and this membrane, the name of which suggests a petrified deer.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul otolithic}{\f21\fs18  membrane\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 10. FTP each, name the English king from a description of his death.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. He was murdered in Pontefract Castle in 1400.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Richard II}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. The last Anglo-Saxon ruler, he was shot through the eye at the Battle of Hastings.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Harold II}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Harold Godwinson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. This Norman was killed in a hunting accident in 1100.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul William II}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul William Rufus\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 11. Answer the following concerning the February 18 elections in Iran FTP each.\par 
1. What Iranian legislative body is being contested in the elections?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Majlis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. What former President is widely believed to be aiming for the position of Majlis speaker, which he held in the 1980s?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Akbar Hashemi }{\f21\fs18\ul Rafsanjani}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. What Iraq-based terrorist group launched mortar attacks on Iranian leaders less than two weeks before the elections?\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mujahideen}{\f21\fs18  i-Khalq\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 12. Given a brief description, name these terms from engineering FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. This number describes the relative deformation or change in shape and size of elastic, plastic or fluid materials under applied forces\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul strain}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. This numerical constant describes the elastic properties of a solid or fluid under pressure on all its surfaces\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul bulk modulus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. This term describes fluid flow which is smooth and follows regular paths\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul laminar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 13. FTP each, name the contemporary American authors from books of poetry.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Houseboat Days}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashbery\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 2. }{\i\f21\fs18 A Scattering of Salts}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Changing Light at Sandover}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: James }{\f21\fs18\ul Merrill}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Dark Harbor}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Blizzard of One}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Mark }{\f21\fs18\ul Strand\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
14. Identify the following children of Loki, FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Loki's eldest child, this giant wolf was immensely strong, and only a specially made ribbon called Gleipnir could hold him.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fenrir}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Fenris}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This serpent grew to such an enormous size that when Odin threw him into the ocean he easily spanned the entire world, which is why he is also known as the Midgard Serpent. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Jormungand}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
3. The youngest child of Loki, she is half alive, half dead, with the face and body of a living woman, but with the legs and thighs of a rotting corpse. Usually described as a horrible hag, she lives in the hall Eljudnir with her two servants,
 Ganglati and Ganglot.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 15. FTP each, name the artists from works.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Cotton-Brokers Office}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Miss Lola at the Cirque Fernando}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Hilaire Germain Edgar }{\f21\fs18\ul Degas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Dante and Virgil in Hell}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Women of Algiers}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Eugene }{\f21\fs18\ul Delacroix}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Joy of Life}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Woman with a Hat}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Henri }{\f21\fs18\ul Matisse}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
16. FTP each, name the reaction from products and reactants.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 1. Chlorine freed from a CFC combines with ozone and a free oxygen atom to produce chlorine and two diatomic oxygen molecules.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Rowland-Molina}{\f21\fs18  reaction\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 2. A specific DNA segment is copied from a template using only two short regions of nucleotides at either end of the segment of interest.\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul p}{\f21\fs18 olymerase }{\f21\fs18\ul c}{\f21\fs18 hain }{\f21\fs18\ul r}{\f21\fs18 eaction\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. In conjunction with acidification, it gives primary and secondary alcohols from aldehydes and tertiary alcohols from ketones.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Grignard}{\f21\fs18  (GRIN-yard) Reactions\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 17. Answer the following about a recently deceased American author FTP each.\par 
1. He served as a bombardier in World War II, and his novels include }{\i\f21\fs18 Something Happened}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Good as Gold}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Joseph }{\f21\fs18\ul Heller}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Name Heller's 1994 sequel to }{\i\f21\fs18 Catch-22}{\f21\fs18  in which he appears as a minor character.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Closing Time}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. Heller co-authored the nonfiction book }{\i\f21\fs18 No Laughing Matter}{\f21\fs18 , which told of his bout in the early 1980s with this paralyzing nerve disorder.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Guillain-Barre}{\f21\fs18  syndrome\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 18. Name each of the following pieces of legislation concerning labor FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. This 1935 New Deal legislation guaranteed labor the right to organize independent unions and guaranteed unions the right of collective bargaining.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wagner}{\f21\fs18  Act or the }{\f21\fs18\ul National Labor Relations}{\f21\fs18  Act\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. This 1947 legislation amended the Wagner Act, made certain labor union practices unfair, outlawed the closed shop, and gave states the right to pass right-to-work laws.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Taft-Hartley}{\f21\fs18  Act or the }{\f21\fs18\ul Labor-Management Relations}{\f21\fs18  Act\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. This 1959 legislation provided for the regulation of internal union affairs, including union funds and includes the union member's Bill of Rights.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Landrum-Griffin}{\f21\fs18  Act or the }{\f21\fs18\ul Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure}{\f21\fs18  Act\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 19. Give the microeconomic term for the effect each of the following situations illustrates, for fifteen points each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. A technological advance allows workers to produce and thus earn a constant amount more for each hour of work, but with no change in the marginal product of labor. Workers thus reduce the amount of tim
e they work and increase the amount they consume.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wealth}{\f21\fs18  effect\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
2. A different technological advance allows an increase in the amount produced and earned which is proportional to the amount worked, with increases in the marginal product of labor at every point. Workers thus increase the amount of time they work and inc
rease the amount they consume.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Substitution}{\f21\fs18  effect\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\f21\fs18 20. Given a brief description, name these terms from physics FTP}{\f21\fs18  each}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. This is the absorption radiation at one frequency followed by its re-emission at a lower frequency.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul fluorescence\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. This is the tendency of an object to resist changes in its motion.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul inertia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. These collisions result when no energy is transformed to heat.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul elastic}{\f21\fs18  collision\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 FTP each, name these groups from medieval Middle Eastern society.\par 
1. These orders of mystics lodged in taqiyah and passed knowledge from murid to pir.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sufi}{\f21\fs18 s (do not prompt on \ldblquote whirling dervishes\rdblquote )\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 2. These military leaders commanded armies; in the 20}{\f21\fs18\up8 th}{\f21\fs18  century, some with this title were given their own countries by the British
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Amir}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. These learned urban elites vied for mansabs to pass on their positions.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul A\rquote yan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Identify the following in the field of optics FTP each.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. Though there is some doubt that the man credited with its discovery deserves it, this law states that the ratio of the sines of the angles of incidence and refraction is equal to the ratio of the 2 indices of refraction.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Snell}{\f21\fs18 's Law\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. Discovered in 1678, this principle assumes that every point on a wave front is the source of secondary wavelets that spread out in all directions with a speed equal to the speed of propagation of the main wave.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Huygens}{\f21\fs18  Principle\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. While Young's experiment used slits to split a monochromatic beam into 2 waves, this device, invented by Albert Michelson, uses a beam splitter to allow the user to observe the interference patterns that result.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Michelson }{\f21\fs18\ul interferometer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 FTP each, answer these questions about scientists working with matter waves.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 1. In 1924, this scientist postulated that particles have an associated wavelength given by dividing Planck\rquote s constant by their momentum.\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Louis }{\f21\fs18\ul de Broglie\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f22 {\f21\fs18 2. This scientist, along with L. H. Germer, used a nickel crystal to show that electrons reflect differently depending on their momentum. He received part of the 1937 Nobel Prize in Physics for his experiment.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Clinton Joseph }{\f21\fs18\ul Davisson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 3. This scientist shared the 1937 Nobel Prize with Davisson. He reflected electrons off a large number of tiny crystals to produce a diffraction beam.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Thompson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}