{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff6\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York;}{\f194\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f195\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f197\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f198\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f199\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f200\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f201\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
endnote text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext16 Word4095Null;}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Heading 11;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext18 Default Paragraph Font1;}}{\info
{\author Ryan Scranton}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo3\dy8\hr19\min5}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy8\hr19\min25}{\version3}{\edmins20}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3872}{\nofchars22072}{\nofcharsws27105}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par Tossups by Vanderbilt
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par 1. Its author dictated the book in less than a month to the first graduate of the very first Russian shorthand school. Perhaps he could achieve such speed because of the parallels of the tit
le character with his own life. That man, Alexei Ivanovich, is in love with Polina, but meets his undoing in the town of Roulettesburg. FTP, identify this 1867 novel by Fyodor Dostoevsky, whose title character has a compulsive mania.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Gambler}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Igrok}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. This nation only achieved independence from Great Britain in 1971, though its ruling dynasty, the al-Khalifas, dates to 1783. It divides its 620 square kilometers of area into 12 administrative provinces, and it currently embroiled in dispute o
ver the Hawar Islands with Qatar. FTP, name this island nation in the Persian Gulf, whose capital and only major city is Manama.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Bahrain}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. For electricity, it is calculated by taking the surface integral of electric displacement and for fluids, 
conservation of mass requires that it be equal and opposite to the rate of change of the density. The quantity is generally defined as the surface integral of the velocity field perpendicular to the container\rquote 
s surface times the fluid density. FTP, name this measure that calculates the amount of a fluid flowing through a surface per unit time, which also has luminous and magnetic varieties, the last of which is measured in webers.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul flux }{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 4. He is buried in Paris's P\u143\'8fre Lachaise (pair la-shezz) cemetery between the graves of Cherubini and Bellini, though his heart was sent back to his home country at his request. His first published work was a set of variations on Mozart's aira }{
\i\f5\fs18 La ci darem la mano}{\f5\fs18 , and his other orchestral works include the }{\i\f5\fs18 Krakowiak}{\f5\fs18 , piano concerti in F and E minor, and the }{\i\f5\fs18 Fantasia on Polish Airs}{\f5\fs18 
. FTP, identify this Romantic composer, best known for his numerous piano works, including etudes, nocturnes, polonaises, and the "Funeral March" piano sonata.
\par \tab Answer: Fr\'8ed\'8eric }{\f5\fs18\ul Chopin}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par 5. He promised to retire if his candidate for president, the little-known North Dakota congressman William Lemke, received less than 9,000,000 votes. When he got about a tenth of that number, he did retire, only to return in 1937
, eight years after he had founded his magazine, }{\i\f5\fs18 Social Justice}{\f5\fs18 . Employed at the Shrine of the Little Flower in Royal Oak, Michigan, FTP, identify this Roman Catholic \'93radio priest\'94
 who attacked the New Deal and promoted Fascism during the 1930's.
\par \tab Answer: Father Charles Edward }{\f5\fs18\ul Coughlin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 6. He became editor of }{\i\f5\fs18 Mind}{\f5\fs18  in 1921 and made it into the leading English-language journal of philosophy. Although he began under the sway of McTaggartian idealism, his 1903 paper "The Refutation of Idealism" contributed to 
a revival of British empiricism. FTP, name this philosopher, who analysed the concept of goodness in his }{\i\f5\fs18 Principia Ethica}{\f5\fs18 , a book that influenced the Bloomsbury group.
\par \tab Answer: George Edward (G. E.) }{\f5\fs18\ul Moore}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 7. First published in 1918, this novel was the centerpiece of a trilogy that included }{\i\f5\fs18 The Turmoil}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Midlander}{\f5\fs18 
. The novel follows George Menafer, the heir to a Midwestern fortune, and his mother Isabel, both of whom lose out to the inexorable social climbing of powerful industrialists. The book was m
ade into a 1942 movie, with much difficulty, by Orson Welles. FTP, name the title family and you\rquote ve named this Booth Tarkington classic.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Magnificent Ambersons}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. Born to a concubine of King Micipsa, this man first aroused the enmity of Rome w
hen he killed several Italians during the sacking of Cirta, the capital city of his half-brother. With the help of his father-in-law, Bocchus of Mauretania, he defeated Roman armies in 110 B.C., but was captured by Quintus Metellus when Bocchus switched s
ides four years later. FTP, identify this troublesome king of Numidia.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Jugurtha}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 9. In the simplest case, their energy level is inversely proportional to the total number of nodes in the wavefunction plus one squared; that is, 1 divided by the principal quantum number }{\i\f5\fs18 n}{\f5\fs18  squared. There are seven of them in a 4}{
\i\f5\fs18 f}{\f5\fs18  sub-shell and only 1 in a 1}{\i\f5\fs18 s}{\f5\fs18  shell. They can be of several types, including \'93hybrid,\'94 \'93delta,\'94 \'93sigma,\'94 and \'93pi\'94
 varieties. FTP, give the term for a region in which an electron may be found in an atom or molecule.
\par \tab Answer: electron }{\f5\fs18\ul orbital}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 10. At the foot of the bed stands a black kitten with its tail pointing up in the air. The subject of the painting wears a magnolia behind her left ear, a gold bracelet on her right arm,  sandals, and nothin
g else, while a black maid offers her a large bouquet of flowers. FTP, identify this painting, a depiction of a nude prostitute which scandalized the art world of 1863 and is a masterpiece of Edouard Manet.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Olympia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. He won the hand of Anna, da
ughter of Byzantine emperor Basil II, by holding an Anatolian city for ransom. In his younger years, he instituted worship of the thunder god Perun. After shopping around for monotheistic religions later in life (rejecting Islam because he loved vodka, Ju
daism because of the homelessness of the Israelites, and Catholicism because he found it boring), he built the Church of the Tithe in Kiev and forced a mass conversion of his realm. FTP, who gained the nickname \'93the saint\'94
 for his conversion of Rus' to Orthodox Christianity?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Vladimir I}{\f5\fs18  (accept early: }{\f5\fs18\ul Vladimir}{\f5\fs18  the }{\f5\fs18\ul Saint}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 12. His only attempt at drama was a collaboration on the play }{\i\f5\fs18 Three Hours After Marriage}{\f5\fs18 , and his prose works include a comic version of Longinus's treatise on the sublime entitled }{\i\f5\fs18 
Peri Bathous, or the Art of Sinking in Poetry}{\f5\fs18 . He completed the fourth book of his projected "Opus Magnum" with the four moral epistles, and his other poems include }{\i\f5\fs18 Windsor Forest}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Eloisa to Abelard}{
\f5\fs18 , and the }{\i\f5\fs18 Epistle to Doctor Arbuthnot}{\f5\fs18 . FTP, name this English author of }{\i\f5\fs18 The Dunciad}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Rape of the Lock}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Alexander }{\f5\fs18\ul Pope}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 13. Only the Liphistius family has the maximum of four pairs of these in the adult, while members of the Palpimanidae have only one pair. Most adults have three pairs, with the an
terior median pair being reduced to a cone known as the colulus or a plate known as the cribellum and all of them are conduits for a protein called fibroin. FTP, identify these structures which open to the outside through spigots where the liquid silk is 
made solid, commonly found on spiders.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul spinneret}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par 14. Its 130 members are divided into several groups: the elite Ministerial Conference, the broader, Geneva-based General Council, and specialized working groups like the Goods Council, Services Cou
ncil and Intellectual Property Council. It was formed as the successor to, and implementer of, GATT during the Uruguay Round of negotiations between 1986 and 1994. FTP, what organization, which regulates international commerce, had a controversial meeting
 in Seattle in 1999?
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul World Trade Organization}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul WTO}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. He analyzed the case of Aim\'8ee, a woman who had attempted to stab the actress Huguette Duflos, as an instance of self-punishment paranoia in his 1932 doctoral thesis, }{\i\f5\fs18 Paranoid Psychosis and its Relations to the Personality}{\f5\fs18 
. In 1963, he left Saint Anne Hospital after being kicked out of the French Society for Psychoanalysis and founded the Freudian School of Paris, where he began work on the four fundamental concepts of psychoanalysis. FTP,
 name this psychoanalyst, whose works in English include }{\i\f5\fs18 \'83crits}{\f5\fs18  and who may be best known for his concept of the mirror stage. 
\par \tab Answer: Jacques }{\f5\fs18\ul Lacan}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 16. He organized the defences of Edinburgh against the Jacobites in 1745, the year before his death. On the strength of 1720's }{\i\f5\fs18 Geometria organica}{\f5\fs18 
, Newton recommended him for Edinburgh's chair of mathematics, and he went on to give a systematic geometric account of the calculus in his }{\i\f5\fs18 Treatise on Fluxions}{\f5\fs18 . FTP, name this mathematician, best known for a specia
l case of an infinite power series of derivatives in which the variable is set to zero, a variant of the Taylor series.
\par \tab Answer: Colin }{\f5\fs18\ul Maclaurin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 17. His skull held the stars and his blood drowned the murderous children who had earlier arisen from the swea
t of his armpits. Born at the intersection of the twelve rivers of Hvergelmir, the cold air of Niflheim, and the warm air of Muspellheim, his flesh was turned into the land of Midgard by the sons of Bor. FTP, name this primeval giant, the first being crea
ted in Norse myth.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Ymir}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. This precocious scholar became a professor of history at Grenoble at the age of 19, and was often referred to as \'93le Jeune\'94 to differentiate him from his older brother. He worked with Ippolito Rosellini to direct an exp
edition that reached Aswan in 1828, two years before the chair of Egyptian Studies at the College de France was created specifically for him. FTP, name this Frenchman, best known for his 1824 breakthrough in which he deciphered hieroglyphics using the Ros
etta Stone.
\par \tab Answer: Jean Fran\u141\'8dois }{\f5\fs18\ul Champollion}{\f5\fs18  (le Jeune)
\par 
\par 19. She most recently spoke to rocker Santana, reportedly saying \'93Calm down, breathe, I am very proud and happy with you.\'94 She was first seen in 1531 on the Hill of Tepevac by an indigent Indian far
mer by the name of Juan Diego, and is currently venerated in a basilica just north of Mexico City. FTP, name this patron saint of Mexico, whose was seen in a town where the treaty ending the Mexican-American War was signed.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Virgin of Guadalupe}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul Our Lady of Guadalupe}{\f5\fs18  or equivalents)
\par 
\par 20. Her only volume of poetry, }{\i\f5\fs18 April Twilights}{\f5\fs18 , was published in 1903, two years before she joined the staff of McClure\rquote s Magazine. Her late works include }{\i\f5\fs18 Lucy Gayheart}{\f5\fs18 
, the story of the daughter of a German-born watchmaker who moves to Chicago to study music; }{\i\f5\fs18 My Mortal Enemy}{\f5\fs18 , set in New York around the turn of the century; and }{\i\f5\fs18 Sapphira and the Slave Girl}{\f5\fs18 
, the only one of her novels to be set in her home state of Virginia. FTP, name this novelist of }{\i\f5\fs18 The Song of the Lark}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 One of Ours}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Death Comes for the Archbishop}{\f5\fs18 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Willa Siebert }{\f5\fs18\ul Cather}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par OT1. Something of a dandy while at George Washington\rquote s law school, he later supported Thurgood Marshall\rquote s purges of communists from the ranks of the NAACP. The author of 1951's }{\i\f5\fs18 Masters of Deceit}{\f5\fs18 
, he kept a list of files to be destroyed upon his death, but received a special dispensation to work beyond normal retirement age. FTP, name the director of the FBI from 1924 until his death in 1972.
\par \tab Answer: John Edgar }{\f5\fs18\ul Hoover}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par O
T2. A missionary in the service of Pope Clement I, he met his end with the priest Rusticus and the deacon Eleutherius. After his death in 258, he is reported to have carried his own severed head to his grave. The place of his execution in Paris is now kno
wn as Montmartre, or \'93Martyr\rquote s Hill.\'94 FTP, name the patron saint of France.
\par \tab Answer: St. }{\f5\fs18\ul Denis}{\f5\fs18  (accept St. }{\f5\fs18\ul Dionysus}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par OT3. First licensed to practice medicine in 1873 as a doctor in Cuba, he didn\rquote t graduate as a doctor in medicine from Madrid until four yea
rs later. The first director of the National Institute of Hygiene in Madrid, he worked to develop a staining method that showed individual nerve fibers. He proved Wilhelm His\rquote 
s idea that the axons conducted signals only away from nerve cells. FTP, name this Spanish neurohistologist, co-winner of the 1906 Nobel Prize for physiology or medicine with Camillo Golgi.
\par \tab Answer: Santiago }{\f5\fs18\ul Ram\emdash n}{\f5\fs18  y Cajal
\par 
\par \'93Mind Gardens\'94 is definitely about acid, but the band\rquote s more famous tune \'93Eight Miles High\'94 had to do with a fear 
of airplanes, not drugs. Michael Clarke drummed, Chris Hillman played bass, Gene Clark wrote lyrics, founder Roger McGuinn played lead guitar, and David Crosby penned the music. FTP, name the bluegrass-rock fusion group that created hits like \'93
So You Want To Be A Rock 'n' Roll Star\'94 \'93Hey Joe!,\'94 and \'93Mr. Tambourine Man.\'94
\par \tab Answer: the Byrds
\par 
\par \'93O Mother race! to thee I bring / This pledge of faith unwavering, / This tribute to thy glory. / I know the pangs which thou didst feel, / When Slavery crushed thee with its heel, / With thy dear blood all gory.\'94 \'93
No other race, when free again, / Forgot the past and proved them men / So noble in forgiving.\'94 FTP, these lines are from what Paul Lawrence Dunbar ode, addressed to an independent African nation?
\par \tab Answer: \'93Ode to Ethiopia\'94
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
This location is where the lady in a Henrik Ibsen play is from, and it is where the \'93Gift\'94 comes from in the title of Anne Morrow Lindbergh\rquote s most famous book. In a children\rquote s book by Avi, the main character goes \'93Beyond\'94
 one of them, and it\rquote s the adjective describing a \'93Wolf\'94 in a Jack London novel. FTP, what place matches wits with Santiago, the old man, in an Ernest Hemingway short story?
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \tab }{\b0\f5\fs18 Answer: the sea
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 \page }{\b\f5\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 Boni by Vanderbilt
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs18 
\par [}{\b\f5\fs18 Note:}{\f5\fs18  Use 1a if you have the art handout, and 1b if you do not have it.]
\par 
\par 1a. For the stated number of points, answer these questions about a work of art.
\par 1. (5 points each) Identify the artist and the altarpiece of which the handout is the central panel.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answers: Matthias }{\f5\fs18\ul Gr\'9fnewald}{\f5\fs18  (accept Mathis }{\f5\fs18\ul Gothart}{\f5\fs18 
 or Mathis Gothart }{\f5\fs18\ul Neithart}{\f5\fs18 ) and the }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Isenheim}{\i\f5\fs18  Altarpiece}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 2. (10 points) This saint\rquote s \'93fire,\'94
 now called ergotism, was the disease that inspired the depiction of the tortured-looking Christ on the central panel.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answer: St. }{\f5\fs18\ul Anthony}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 3. (10 points) This 
Nobel-Prize winning author plastered copies of the Altarpiece throughout his Vienna apartment while writing }{\i\f5\fs18 Auto-da-F\'8e}{\f5\fs18 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answer: Elias }{\f5\fs18\ul Canetti}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par 1b. Answer these questions about a work of art FTP each.
\par 1. This artist is best known for }{\i\f5\fs18 The Isenheim Altarpiece}{\f5\fs18 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answer: Matthias }{\f5\fs18\ul Gr\'9fnewald}{\f5\fs18  (accept Mathis }{\f5\fs18\ul Gothart}{\f5\fs18 
 or Mathis Gothart }{\f5\fs18\ul Neithart}{\f5\fs18 ) 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 2. This saint\rquote s \'93fire,\'94
 now called ergotism, was the disease that inspired the depiction of the tortured-looking Christ on the central panel of }{\i\f5\fs18 The Isenheim Altarpiece}{\f5\fs18 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answer: St. }{\f5\fs18\ul Anthony}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 3. This Nobel-Prize winning author plastered copies of the Altarpiece throughout his Vienna apartment while writing 
}{\i\f5\fs18 Auto-da-F\'8e}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Elias }{\f5\fs18\ul Canetti}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 2. Answer these questions about a German poet, FTP each.
\par 1. This author of }{\i\f5\fs18 The Book of Hours}{\f5\fs18  and the }{\i\f5\fs18 Sonnets to Orpheus}{\f5\fs18  began an affair with Lou Andreas-Salom\'8e in 1897, when he was 22 years old.
\par \tab Answer: Ranier Maria }{\f5\fs18\ul Rilke}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Rilke's masterpiece is this series of 10 poems, published in 1923, which took him over 10 years to write.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Duino Elegies}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Duineser Elegien}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Consisting of 71 diary entries, this novel by Rilke depicts a young Danish poet living in Paris.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Notebook of Malte Laurids Brigge}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Die }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Aufzeichnungen des Malte Laurids Brigge}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. Name the inventive people or families from a clue about their actual merits FTP or from a description of their creation for 5.
\par 1. (10 points) This aristocratic Russian family made their fortunes as salt traders in the Siberian hinterland. Among their high points included the ransom of Vasily the Blind and patronship of the St. Petersburg Academy of Art.
\par (5 points) The family lent its name to a beef and mushroom dish that goes heavy on sour cream.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Stroganoff}{\f5\fs18  family
\par 3. (10 points) Head of the Admiralty during the American Revolution, he was noted for his rivalry with John Wilkes.
\par (5 points) He wouldn\rquote t leave the gaming tables during his marathon card-playing runs, and chose instead to make his meals on the fly by smacking meat and condiments between two pieces of bread.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f5\fs18\ul Montagu}{\f5\fs18  or the fourth earl of }{\f5\fs18\ul Sandwich}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) This guy worked for the Manchu Dynasty, and was specially charged with putting down uprisings by Muslim extremists.
\par (5 points) Taiwanese immigrants to the U.S. attached his name to a crispy, spicy Chinese chicken dish.
\par \tab Answer: General }{\f5\fs18\ul Tso}{\f5\fs18  Zong-Tang
\par 
\par 4. Given a description of how some mathematician got the credit for something Pietro Mengoli did first, name the mathematician FTP each.
\par 1. Mengoli\rquote s definition of the definite integral proceeded this pious Frenchman\rquote s by a full hundred years! This punk also ripped off Gauss for credit for some algebraic discoveries, but did solve Fermat\rquote s conjecture.
\par \tab Answer: Augustin Louis }{\f5\fs18\ul Cauchy}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Mengoli discovered that the harmonic series sigma 1/n was divergent five years before this native of Basel did. One of a famous mathematical family, this guy also figured out how to quadrisect 
a triangle with two perpendicular lines and discovered a logarithmic spiral whose formula he placed on his tombstone.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Jacques}{\f5\fs18  (or }{\f5\fs18\ul Jakob}{\f5\fs18 ) }{\f5\fs18\ul Bernoulli}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Mengoli produced a series for logarithms ten years before this Flemish man. To add insult to injury, the Netherlander who won everlasting fame wasn\rquote t even a mathematician by trade \endash  he was a mapmaker!
\par \tab Answer: Gerardus }{\f5\fs18\ul Mercator}{\f5\fs18  (accept Gerhard }{\f5\fs18\ul Kremer}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 
\par 5. Answer these questions about Caribbean slave uprisings of the 19}{\f5\fs18\up6 th}{\f5\fs18  century for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) He conquered all of Haiti before his treacherous capture at the hands of Napoleonic General Leclerc.
\par \tab Answer: Fran\u141\'8dois Dominique }{\f5\fs18\ul Toussaint L\rquote Ouverture}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) He took over the slave cause after Toussaint L'Ouverture\rquote s death and, after suppressing a mulatto army under Andr\'8e Rigaud, declared himself emperor in 1804. Known as \'93the Tiger,\'94
 he died two years later and was succeeded by Henri Christophe.
\par \tab Answer: Jean-Jacques }{\f5\fs18\ul Dessalines}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) In 1841, this U.S. ship, carrying slaves from Virginia to Louisiana, was seized by its cargo and redirected to freedom in Nassau.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 U.S.S. }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Creole}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 6. Given a river, name the body of water into which it empties FTP each.
\par 1. Dnieper River
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Black}{\f5\fs18  Sea
\par 2. Zambezi River
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Mozambique}{\f5\fs18  Channel
\par 3. Indus River
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Arabian}{\f5\fs18  Sea
\par 
\par 7. Name these feminist writers FTP each.
\par 1. This Bulgarian-born writer became a student of Roland Barthes, and her structuralist phase included writings like }{\i\f5\fs18 Desire in Language}{\f5\fs18 , though she has gone on to write more psychoanalytic works like }{\i\f5\fs18 Black Sun}{
\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 In the Beginning Was Love}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Julia }{\f5\fs18\ul Kristeva}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Closely associated with Catherine McKinnon, her most recent book is }{\i\f5\fs18 Life and Death: Unapologetic Writings on the Continuing War Against Women}{\f5\fs18 , but she\rquote s best known for the speech }{\i\f5\fs18 Fire and Ice}{\f5\fs18 
 and the book }{\i\f5\fs18 War Zone}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Andrea }{\f5\fs18\ul Dworkin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. This Jewish poet and liberal, lesbian thinker is best known for collections like }{\i\f5\fs18 Diving Into the Wreck}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Dream of a Common Language}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Adrienne }{\f5\fs18\ul Rich}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8. Identify these people who did stuff in 1517 FTP each.
\par 1. This powerful English cardinal, Chancellor to the young Henry VIII, executed 60 people after the \'93Evil May Day\'94 riots in London.
\par \tab Answer: Cardinal Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Wolsey}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. This imposing Spanish Cardinal, successor to Tomaso de Torquemada, passed away.
\par \tab Answer: Cardinal }{\f5\fs18\ul Jim\'8enez}{\f5\fs18  de Cisneros
\par 3. Most famously, this German banged a series of complaints to the door of the Palast Church in Wittenberg.
\par \tab Answer: Martin }{\f5\fs18\ul Luther}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 9. Answer these questions about discoveries made at the Arecibo telescope FTP each.
\par 1. In 1974, Princeton professors Joseph Taylor and Russell Hulse used observations of the decay of the orbit of a binary pulsar system to infer the existence of this phenomenon.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul gravity wave}{\f5\fs18 s (also accept }{\f5\fs18\ul gravitational radiation}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. In 1991, Penn State professor Alexander Wolszczan used Arecibo to discover the first extra-solar planet. He found it in a pulsar system, catchily named PSR B1257+12, in this constellation.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Virgo}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Although it hasn\rquote t found anything yet, this volunteer program where people download data from the telescope and analyze it on their own computers has logged over 1100 hours of CPU time on 300,000 computers. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul SETI@home}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 10. Given a description of a deity and the culture that worshipped (or worships) it, name the god for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) The Colossus of Rhodes was a depiction of this Greek god, the personification of the sun.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Helios}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) She\rquote s the principal deity of Shintoism, a sun goddess who caused a lot of problems when she locked herself (and thereby all light) in a cave.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Amaterasu}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) In the }{\i\f5\fs18 Rig Veda}{\f5\fs18 , this sun god rides in a chariot drawn by seven horses and guided by Aruna, the dawn goddess who is either his wife or his mother.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Surya}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. Identify these authors involved with Satan, FTP each.
\par 1. This author of }{\i\f5\fs18 Satan in Goray}{\f5\fs18  also wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 The Magician of Lublin}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Gimpel the Fool}{\f5\fs18 , and won the Nobel Prize in 1978.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answer: Isaac Bashevis }{\f5\fs18\ul Singer}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 2. This Italian, winner of the 1906 Nobel Prize, wrote the }{\i\f5\fs18 Hymn to Satan}{\f5\fs18  in 1865.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 Answer: Giosu\u143\'8f }{\f5\fs18\ul Carducci}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 3. In the preface to his 1821 poem }{\i\f5\fs18 A Vision of Judgment}{\f5\fs18 
, this British poet laureate designated Shelley, Keats and Byron as the "Satanic school" of poets. Unfortunately, he didn't live long enough to win the Nobel Prize he richly deserved.
\par \tab Answer: Robert }{\f5\fs18\ul Southey
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 12. Answer these questions about the history of beer for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) What English brew has the world\rquote s oldest patent on an alcoholic beverage?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Bass}{\f5\fs18  Ale
\par 2. For 15 points if exact, 10 within the decade, and 5 within the century, in what year were the first German beer purity laws passed? You must pick an exact year as your answer.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul 1516}{\f5\fs18  (10 points if the year is within }{\f5\fs18\ul 1506-1526}{\f5\fs18 , and 5 points if it is within }{\f5\fs18\ul 1416-1616}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 3. (10 points) Give the name for the German Purity Laws, passed in 1516.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Reinheitsgebot
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 13. Answer these questions about cell walls in plants for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) This glucose super-molecule serves as the primary stiffening component in the cell wall.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul cellulose}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) This hormone releases H}{\f5\fs18\up6 +}{\f5\fs18  ions, which result in the loosening of the cell wall. It is the hormone plants most commonly use to accomplish such a loosening.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul auxin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) Dutch physiologist A. J. N. Heyn first discovered the loosening effect of auxin by experimenting on these pointed sheaths that cover grass seedlings. Its name derives from two Greek words meaning \'93feather sheath.\'94
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul coleoptile}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par 14. Name these composers from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. (10 points) He leased his own theater in 1855 to present his opera }{\i\f5\fs18 The Two Angels}{\f5\fs18 , and his other works include }{\i\f5\fs18 The Grand Duchess}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Parisian Life}{\f5\fs18 .
\par (5 points) This composer of comic operas may be best known for 1858's }{\i\f5\fs18 Orpheus in the Underworld}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Jacques }{\f5\fs18\ul Offenbach}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) He studied under Sammartini thanks to the patronage of Prince Melzi before returning to Vienna, where he collaborated with the poet Calzabigi on numerous operas.
\par (5 points) The first of those collaborations was 1762's }{\i\f5\fs18 Orfeo ed Euridice}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Christoph Willibald von }{\f5\fs18\ul Gluck}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points) His operatic output, primarily created for the entertainment of the duke of Mantua, includes }{\i\f5\fs18 Arianna}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Return of Ulysses}{\f5\fs18 .
\par (5 points) He\rquote s best known for 1607\rquote s }{\i\f5\fs18 Orfeo}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Claudio }{\f5\fs18\ul Monteverdi}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15. Name these American poets from collections of verse, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 Winter Trees}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Ariel}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Sylvia }{\f5\fs18\ul Plath}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 Copper Sun}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 The Black Christ}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Countee }{\f5\fs18\ul Cullen}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (15 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 Truth Is On Its Way}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Black Feeling, Black Talk}{\f5\fs18 
\par \tab Answer: Nikki }{\f5\fs18\ul Giovanni}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 16. You ain\rquote t down with me if you ain\rquote t down with these Roman Catholic saints! Name these FTP each.
\par 1. He was beaten to death for opposing a heathen festival, but, in life, was known for running the church around Ephesus after being baptized (and twice written to) by St. Paul.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Timothy}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. There are actually two saints of this name, one a Roman doctor who was martyred under Claudius II, the other a b
ishop of Turni who was executed around 273. Either way, the saint we know by this name is the patron of beekeepers, and is invoked against epilepsy and for a happy marriage.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Valentine}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. He sat on a 12-square foot balustrade on top of a sixty foot pole for 36 years and trained a successor saint named Daniel. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Simeon Stylites}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Simeon the Stylite}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 17. Identify these related chemistry terms, FTP each.
\par 1. This is a large molecule composed of many smaller, repeating units. Atactic ones have no regular arrangement along the chain.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul polymer}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Consider a copolymer with two units, A and B. If the copolymer has its units arranged in an A-A-B-B-A-A-B-B pattern, the copolymer is given this name.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul block}{\f5\fs18  copolymer
\par 3. This type of copolymer has side chains of B-B-B linked to a central chain of A-A-A-A
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul graft}{\f5\fs18  copolymer
\par 
\par 18. Identify these related economics terms FTP each.
\par 1. This production curve indicates the technical possibilities of given input combinations to produce a given output. Each option on the curve is of equal utility.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul production indifference}{\f5\fs18  curve
\par 2. This line represents equally costly input combinations.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul budget}{\f5\fs18  line
\par 3. This path is the locus of all points of tangency between the indifference curve and the budget line. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul expansion}{\f5\fs18  path
\par 
\par 19. FTP each, answer these questions about the history of Macedonia.
\par 1. This man, father to Alexander the Great, ruled from 359-336 B.C. and significantly expanded the empire founded in the 650s by King Perdiccas I.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Philip II}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. In 1014, this Tsar of the Macedonians lost sovereignty his nation to the Byzantines.
\par \tab Answer: Tsar }{\f5\fs18\ul Samuel}{\f5\fs18  
\par 3. The Badinter Commission of the European Community approved Macedonia\rquote s independence from the disintegrating Yugoslav state in January of what year?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul 1991}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par 20. Answer these questions about oscilloscopes FTP each.
\par 1. Older oscilloscopes fire an electron gun at this type of luminescent display.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul cathode-ray}{\f5\fs18  tube
\par 2. The horizontal deflection of the electron beam is determined by the known frequency. Give the term for this known frequency, which usually takes the form of a sawtooth waveform.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul timebase}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Curves in oscilloscopes given variable X and Y inputs often resemble parametric plots where the X and Y axes are out of phase sinusoids. Identify these mutually perpendicular harmonic \'93figures,\'94 named for a French mathematician.
\par \tab Answer: (Jules Antoine) }{\f5\fs18\ul Lissajous}{\f5\fs18  figures
\par 
\par Several running backs put together solid seasons for poor teams. Given an NFL team, name its leading rusher for the 1999-2000 season FTP each.
\par 1. Cincinnati Bengals
\par \tab Answer: Corey }{\f5\fs18\ul Dillon}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Philadelphia Eagles
\par \tab Answer: Duce }{\f5\fs18\ul Staley}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Denver Broncos
\par \tab Answer: Olandis }{\f5\fs18\ul Gary}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par FTP each, identify these diseases that are still treated using passive immunization.
\par 1. This central nervous system disease usually occurs after the victim incurs a deep wound and is fatal nearly half the time.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul tetanus}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul lockjaw}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 2. This nervous tissue disease often passes from animal saliva to humans, where it causes fever, convulsions, and eventually death.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul rabies}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul hydrophobia}{\f5\fs18 )
\par 3. Unable to persist in human blood, this viral disease causes inflammation of the liver.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul hepatitis A}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul infectious hepatitis}{\f5\fs18 ; prompt on }{\f5\fs18\ul hepatitis}{\f5\fs18 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f5\fs18 
\par }}