{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}
{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1215\fnil ArgentumSilver;}{\f1411\fnil CheapMotelTrue;}{\f1425\fnil Milano;}{\f1517\fnil Trajan;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2106\fnil SlitherÅ;}{\f2133\fnil Diamond;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2366\fnil AltenburgÅ;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2920\fnil Lonely Annie;}
{\f3912\fnil Wingdings;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f6433\fnil StilettoSilver;}{\f7092\fnil Monotype.com;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f9425\fnil Courier Web;}{\f11060\fnil Goudy Trajan Medium;}{\f11509\fnil Lilith-Light;}
{\f11822\fnil EmpireBuilder-Document;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f15089\fnil Minion Web;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f32510\fnil zt-ibm;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 endnote text;}{\s2 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext2 Word4095Null;}{\s3 \f22\fs20 
\sbasedon222\snext3 Default Paragraph Font1;}{\s4 \f2005 \sbasedon0\snext4 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Wichita State}{\author Ryan Scranton}}\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 
ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard\plain \s4 \f2005 {\b\f21\fs18 Tossups by Wichita State A (Eric Owens, Vic D\rquote Amico, Lisa Edmonds)\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. Located at about 8 hours 25 minutes right ascension and 20 degrees north declination, it contains a loose cluster of more than 300 faint stars known as Praesepe or th
e Beehive. The ancient Greeks discovered that the sun entered it at the summer solstice, but as a result of precession the sun's most northerly position has now moved westward to the border of Gemini and Taurus. FTP, identify this constellation lying betwe
en Leo and Gemini, the fourth sign of the zodiac, named for the Greek mythological figure that was sent to distract Heracles as he attacked the Hydra and not for a disease.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cancer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. This character appears in the wilderness in a poem by Anthony H
echt, who imagines him returning to France from Africa after seeing the partially eaten corpse of a monkey. In the final scene of the play in which he appears, he asks Eliante to forgive him for his failure to propose to her, and tells his friend Philinthe
 (fee-LANT) that he is going into seclusion. FTP, identify this outspoken, rigidly honest young man, whose marriage proposal is rejected by C\'8elim\'8fne (say-lee-MEN) in a 1666 play by Moliere.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Misanthrope}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Le }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Misanthrope}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Alceste}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. He stepp
ed down as president of his country in 1985, but continued as head of the ruling party until 1990. His government emphasized a form of rural socialism known as ujamaa, and, in 1978, troops under his leadership entered Uganda, deposing Idi Amin. After his r
etirement he remained active in African politics, and was known throughout the continent as Mwalimu, Swahili for teacher. FTP, identify this first president of Tanzania, who died in October, 1999.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Julius Kambarage }{\f21\fs18\ul Nyerere}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 4. In this reaction, the
 adduct of butadiene and maleic anhydride is used in the synthesis of the important fungicide captan. It does not require a catalyst, nor is the reaction retarded by the presence of oxidation inhibitors. One of the most valuable and versatile methods for t
he preparation of the compounds containing a six-membered ring, it proceeds most rapidly when the dienophile is substituted by electron-attracting groups. FTP, identify this reaction, also known as diene synthesis, the 1,4-addition of an alkene to a conjug
ated diene which was discovered in 1928 by two German chemists.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Diels-Alder}{\f21\fs18  reaction (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul diene synthesis}{\f21\fs18  on early buzz)\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
5. They believe that the cyclical process of reincarnation ends in kaivalya, after which the soul, or jiva, is liberated from matter. This religion's founder is often mentioned in Buddhist scriptures under the name Nigantha Nataputta, "the naked Ascetic of
 the Clan of the Jnatrikas" who was said to be the twenty-fourth and last of the Tirthankaras. FTP, identify this religion which arose in protest against the ritualism of Hinduism and the authority of the Veda in India, and which was founded by Mahavira.
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Jain}{\f21\fs18 s or }{\f21\fs18\ul Jainism}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
6. Just before his death in 1986, he was experimenting with what he called "fictive biographies," such as "In Kew Gardens," about Virginia Woolf, and "Alma Redeemed," about Alma Mahler. His more famous short stories include "Glass Blower of Venice," in whi
ch the failed artist Fidelman is raped by the titular blower, "Rembrandt's Hat," and "Idiots First." FTP, name this American writer, whose eight novels include }{\i\f21\fs18 Dubin's Lives}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Fixer}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Assistant}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Natural}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Bernard }{\f21\fs18\ul Malamud}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
7. The initial deposit forms from a silica gel that surrounds and isolates a salt solution. If the water surrounding the chalcedony deposit becomes less saline, osmosis begins to bring the salinity inside into equilibrium with that outside and internal pre
ssure increases. The formation will expand, either at the expense of the surrounding limestone, which dissol
ves at the limestone-silica interface, or, if the limestone has not hardened, by pushing aside the lime mud. FTP, name this type of nodule, formed when dehydration and crystallization occurs, followed by shrinkage, cracking, and the entrance of water carry
ing dissolved minerals, which are deposited on the wall of the sphere to form inward-projecting crystals. \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: a }{\f21\fs18\ul geode}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 8. The victims were to be killed on the road between London and Newmarket, but they failed to make the journey on the expected day.
 Many of the conspirators escaped, but the plot was used by the government as an excuse to arrest several Whig leaders, notably Lord Russell and Algernon Sidney, who were executed for treason. James Scott, duke of Monmouth, may have been more deeply implic
ated, but he was pardoned and just excluded from the royal court. FTP, identify this conspiracy organized in 1683 for the assassination of King Charles II and his brother the future James II, which is named for a building in Hertfordshire near which the mu
rder was to have occured.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Rye House}{\f21\fs18  Plot \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
9. Among the notable buildings of this city are the 19th-century Roman Catholic and Anglican cathedrals, Saint Mary's and Saint Finbar, respectively, and Queen's College, which has been part of the National University of Ireland since 1908. An important di
stribution center for Munster's agricultural region, it is located on the Lee River, and lies in the southern part of the Republic of Ireland at the head of a harbor inlet with which it shares its nam
e. FTP, identify this second largest city in Ireland, whose name should be familiar to oenophiles.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cork}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
10. The last important member of the school was the admiral Melissus of Samos, who argued that reality was not only boundless but incorporeal. According to Aristotle, it was founded in Lucania by Xenophanes, but his monotheistic views have little to do wit
h the school's better known doctrines, which argue against Empedoclean pluralism and claim that anything that can be spoken of cannot not be, 
and that reality must be unitary and unchanging. FTP, identify this ancient philosophical school, whose best known members were Zeno and Parmenides.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Eleatic}{\f21\fs18  school\par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
11. As a child, he was the subject of experiments by a Harvard professor who is now a Nazi scientist. When the novel begins, he is an American working for Allied Intelligence in London. Agents of the Firm, a clandestine military organization, are investiga
ting an apparent connection between his erections and the targeting of incomin
g V-2 rockets. His quest for the truth behind these implications leads him on a nightmarish journey of either historic discovery or profound paranoia, depending on your interpretation. FTP, name this hero of Thomas Pynchon's 1974 National Book Award-winnin
g novel }{\i\f21\fs18 Gravity's Rainbow}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Lieutenant Tyrone }{\f21\fs18\ul Slothrop}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 12. His books include the posthumously published }{\i\f21\fs18 New Frontiers}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Toward World Peace}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Corn and the Midwestern Farmer}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Long Look Ahead}{
\f21\fs18 . He served as a writer on agricultural journals in his native Iowa from 1910 to 1933, and after public service he served as editor of the }{\i\f21\fs18 New Republic}{\f21\fs18 . He was forced to resign from Truman\rquote 
s cabinet after delivering a speech castigating American foreign policy, especially the hard-line policy toward the Soviet Union. FTP, identify this man, a presidential candidate for the Progressive Party in 1948, who 
was secretary of agriculture from 1933 to 1940, and in 1941 became the 33rd vice president of the United States.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Henry Agard }{\f21\fs18\ul Wallace}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 13. The work o
f Gaspar Casal, following a 1735 visit to a town in the Iberian Peninsula, constituted the first medical identification of this malady, and its characteristic neck lesions are called "Casal's necklace" in his honor. For the next 200 years it spread, primar
ily afflicting poor people forced to survive on a diet lacking milk or meat. Known as the "disease of the three Ds" -- dermatitis, diarrhea, and dementia -- it has often ended in a fourth "D", death. FTP, identify this non-contagious disease studied in 191
5 by Joseph Goldberger and finally cured in 1937 by Conrad Elvehjem with his discovery of the vitamin niacin.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pellagra}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul mal de sole}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul mal de la misere}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul mal de la rosa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 14. His lesser known works include }{\i\f21\fs18 Chao-Kang}{\f21\fs18 , a ballet, incidental music for the play }{\i\f21\fs18 The Moldavian Gypsy}{\f21\fs18 , and the }{\i\f21\fs18 Trio Path\'8etique}{\f21\fs18 
. He took a trip to Spain in 1844 which resulted in two orchestral works, }{\i\f21\fs18 Jota Aragonesa}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Night in Madrid}{\f21\fs18 , but he is better remembered for his two operas, the first of which was originally known as 
}{\i\f21\fs18 Ivan Susanin}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, identify this man regarded as the first of the nationalistic school of Russian composers, known for his operas }{\i\f21\fs18 Russlan and Ludmilla}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Life for the Czar}{\f21\fs18 .
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Mikhail Ivanovich }{\f21\fs18\ul Glinka}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
15. This treaty provided for a commission to settle the North Atlantic fishing dispute, resulting in an exchange of customs privileges. One major point at issue was the San Juan Boundary Dispute involving rival claims to a group of islands in Puget Sound, 
which could have belonged to either countr
y due to faulty wording in the treaty that settled the Northwest Boundary Dispute. Also at issue was a demand that Britain pay reparations for Union ships destroyed during the Civil War by Confederate raiders built in England. FTP, identify the 1871 treaty
 that sent both of these issues to independent arbitration, which ultimately ruled in favor of the U.S. and which is named for the American capital city where it was negotiated. \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f21\fs18\ul Washington}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 16. He died in prison in 1957 while serving a 
two-year sentence for contempt of court and violation of the Food and Drug Act after a device he invented to restore energy was declared a fraud. He had extended Freud's hypothesis that sexuality determines personality, and concluded that orgastically pote
nt individuals will spontaneously seek to do what is good and right. FTP, identify this Austrian psychiatrist who emigrated to the U.S. in 1939 and combined Marxism and psychoanalysis to advocate the positive effects of directed sexual energies and sexual 
freedom in such works as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Sexual Revolution}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Function of the Orgasm}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Wilhelm }{\f21\fs18\ul Reich}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
17. The artist can be seen in the background of this work as the short, bearded man with the derby standing to the left of the very tall man with the top hat, his cousin. They are standing to the left of two women, one of whom is adjusting her hair, while 
a group of three men and two women sit at a table in the foreground, a pattern reminiscent of the zigzag pattern of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Glass of Absinthe}{\f21\fs18 , by Degas. FTP
, identify this painting completed in 1892 and on display at the Art Institute of Chicago, which shows the performers and customers of a well-known Paris nightclub, a work of Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul At the Moulin Rouge}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
18. Based on a story by John Steinbeck, this film was criticized for making John Hodiak's character appear to be a left-leaning liberal despite the fact that his role represented only one view among the group's spectrum of political attitudes, and for givi
ng Walter Slezak's chara
cter the upper hand although he hardly emerges as the hero. Canada Lee's moving recitation of the Twenty-third Psalm is one of this movie's highlights. The director can be seen in a cameo appearance in a newspaper ad for a reducing aid. FTP, identify this 
1944 film which begins with the sinking of an Allied passenger-freighter by a Nazi submarine, and which features Tallulah Bankhead and eight other survivors taking refuge in the title object.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lifeboat}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 19. After the purges of the 1930s he joined the People's Commissariat of Foreign Affairs as head of the U.S. division. He subsequently became counselor at the Soviet embassy in the U.S, and went on to serve as his country\rquote 
s ambassador to Great Britain and the United States. A skilled negotiator, he a
ttended the conferences at Dumbarton Oaks, Yalta, and Potsdam, and was made deputy premier in 1983. FTP, identify this Soviet leader, who was named president of the USSR in 1985, only to resign three years later so that Mikhail Gorbachev could assume the t
itle, and who also served as foreign minister from 1957 to 1985.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Andrey Andreyevich }{\f21\fs18\ul Gromyko}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
20. Its Latin epigraph comes from the seventeenth century theologian Thomas Burnet, and states that there are more invisible than visible beings in the universe. The prose notes were added to the poem in 1817, 19 years after it was first published. In its 
seventh and final section, the narrator is saved from drowning by the Hermit of the Wood, and divulges the moral of his story, that \ldblquote He prayeth best, who loveth best / All things both great and small\rdblquote 
 to his unwilling interlocutor, the Wedding Guest. FTP, identify this poem, whose protagonist causes the deaths of his fellow seamen when he shoots an Albatross, which was written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rime of the Ancient Mariner}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 1. After study at Oberlin and Wheaton colleges and service in the Union army during the Civil War, he became a geology professor at Illinois Wesleyan College in 1865. In 1869 he explored and made a geological survey
 of the Green and Colorado river canyons. During his travels he studied the Native Americans he encountered, and in 1879 he was appointed the first director of the U.S. Bureau of Ethnology. He also served as head of the U.S. Geological Survey. FTP, identif
y this American renaissance man, known as the first major classifier of Native American languages, and as a pioneering surveyor of the Rocky Mountains.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: John Wesley }{\f21\fs18\ul Powell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 2. Set in a mythical totalitarian country, this novel presents the thought
s of a former teacher who has been convicted of "gnostic turpitude" for being different from his mediocre fellow countrymen. Sentenced to die on an unknown date, he sits in his prison cell and records in his diary his private thoughts and intuitions about 
an ideal world that he considers to be his true home. FTP, this describes what 1938 novel, which ends with Cincinnatus C. being executed, a work by Vladimir Nabokov?\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Invitation to a Beheading}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 OT}{\f21\fs18 3. The name\rquote s the same. One was an organization founded after the American Civil War in several southern communities to block the programs of the Freedmen\rquote 
s Bureau. Another was a group of South Carolina backcountry settlers who, from 1767 to 1769, banded together to oppose corrupt government practices and cl
ear their homelands of terrorizing bands of outlaws. It also names a similar group in North Carolina, which opposed the colonial governor and was destroyed in the 1771 battle of Alamance Creek. FTP, identify the name these groups share, all formed to prote
ct the common interests of their communities.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Regulator}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
Of him Virginia Woolf said, "You hold the future of the novel in your hands." A childhood friend of W.H. Auden, he lived in Germany in the years prior to World War II and based his most popular short stories on his experiences. Mr. Issyvoo, his narrator th
rough the Berlin stories, tries not to judge the people around him as they yield to th
e sway of Nazism and instead reports the human consequences. FTP name this author of "Mr. Norris Changes Trains" and "Goodbye to Berlin," as well as "Sally Bowles," the books which became "Cabaret."\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Christopher Isherwood\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 ACF Regionals 2000\par 
}\pard\plain \s4 \f2005 {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Wichita State\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
1. Identify the Sherlock Holmes tales from descriptions FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. Holmes matches wits with Irene Adler to recover an incriminating photograph of the king of the titular historic region.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Scandal In Bohemia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. In a story narrated by a sorrowful Dr. Watson, Holmes and his nemesis Professor Moriarty face off atop Reichenbach Falls in a confrontation that leads to Holmes' apparent death.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Final Problem}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. Holmes investigates the murder of a horse trainer where the culprit turned out to be not a clumsy stable boy or a competitor but the titular horse itself.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Silver Blaze}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. Identify the following terms from meteorology FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. This glasslike piece of rock is formed when lightning strikes dry sand. Some can measure up to 10 feet in length.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul fulgurite}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. The force that causes winds to deviate to the right in the Northern Hemisphere and left in the Southern Hemisphere, as a result of the Earth's rotation.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Coriolis}{\f21\fs18  effect or }{\f21\fs18\ul Coriolis}{\f21\fs18  force\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. Not to be confused with its downward flowing counterpart, this is a localized wind warmed by sunshine that flows up a slope. It can also refer to a wind blowing inland from the sea.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul anabatic}{\f21\fs18  wind\par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. Identify these economists, none of whom are Nobel laureates, on a 10-5 basis.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab }{\f21\fs18 (10 points) His 1871 pamphlet }{\i\f21\fs18 Our Land and Land Policy}{\f21\fs18  argued that the boom in the West, resulting from the development of the railroads, was actually making most people p
oor and only a few rich. \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) Eight years later, his book }{\i\f21\fs18 Progress and Poverty}{\f21\fs18  brought him fame as an opponent of poverty and injustice in modern capitalism.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Henry }{\f21\fs18\ul George}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab }{\f21\fs18 (10 points) He wrote articles on economics for the }{\i\f21\fs18 Encyclop\'8edie}{\f21\fs18  and, in his }{\i\f21\fs18 Tableau \'83conomique}{\f21\fs18 , he presented what he considered the \ldblquote natural law
\rdblquote  of economics. \par 
(5 points) This founder of the physiocrats maintained that commerce and industry were essentially nonproductive and only agriculture could increase wealth.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Francois }{\f21\fs18\ul Quesnay}{\f21\fs18  (kuh-NAY)\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab }{\f21\fs18 (10 points) This Scotsman served as comptroller-general of the British Board of Trade, and wrote such books as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Growth of Capital}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Case Against Bimetallism}{
\f21\fs18 . \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) He is best remembered today for his eponymous good.\par 
\tab Answer: Sir Robert }{\f21\fs18\ul Giffen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 4. Identify these Greek mythological figures, all of whom might appear near the beginning of a mythological dictionary, for the stated number of points. \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) He was keeper of the winds who welcomed Odysseus as an honored guest. As a parting gift he gave Odysseus a favoring wind and a leather bag filled with all the winds, which Odysseus\rquote 
s sailors opened thinking it was gold.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Aeolus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) While Agamemnon was away fighting in the Trojan War, this son of Thyestes became the lover of Queen Clytemnestra, and helped Clytemnestra kill her husband upon his return from Troy.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Aegisthus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) She was the wife of Zethus, king of Thebes. She was insanely jealous of her sister-in-law, Niobe
, who had seven sons, while she had only one. Attempting to kill Niobe's eldest boy, Itylus, she slew her own son by mistake, and Zeus turned her into a nightingale.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul A\'91don}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 5. Identify these nineteenth-century battles, given the dates and the leaders on both sides, FTP each.\par 
1. November 7, 1811. William Henry Harrison defeated Tenskwatawa, or the Shawnee Prophet.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tippecanoe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. June 4, 1859. The French under MacMahon defeated the Austrians under Clam-Gallas at this colorful battle.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Magenta}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. December 9, 1824. Antonio Jose de Sucre defeated Jose de La Serna, viceroy of Peru.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ayacucho}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 6. Identify these Edgar Allan Poe short stories from characters, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. Montresor and Fortunato.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Cask of Amontillado}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. Pluto, the titular pet, and the narrator's wife, whom he murders with an axe.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Black Cat}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Prince Prospero and a whole bunch of unlucky revellers.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Masque of the Red Death}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7.  Identify these tribes of Israel from a description, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. }{\f21\fs18 The tribe of this fifth son of Jacob conquered Leshem and included such luminaries as Aholiab and Samson.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18 the tribe of }{\f21\fs18\ul Dan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\f21\fs18 This tribe, the descendants of Jacob's eldest son, never came to power, probably because their namesake committed incest at Eder}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Reuben}{\f21\fs18 ite}{\f21\fs18 s}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. According to Exodus, this tribe formed the vanguard in the march through the wilderness out of Egypt, and the succeeding biblical boo
ks describing the later history of Israel portray this tribe as dominant. After the reign of Solomon, it formed a separate, southern kingdom with the tribe of Benjamin.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Judah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 8. Answer the following questions about glaciers, for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points) Starting in 1837, his Swiss geologist extended the work on mountain glaciers by Venetz, finding the first evidence for continental glaciation in the Northern Hemisphere.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Louis }{\f21\fs18\ul Agassiz}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) German for "mountain crevice", this is a crevasse or series of crevasses often found near the head of a mountain glacier. It lies a short distance from the exposed rock walls and separates the stationary fro
m the moving ice.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul bergschrund}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) It is an amphitheatre-shaped basin with precipitous walls, at the head of a glacial valley. It generally results from erosion beneath the bergschrund of a glacier.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cirque}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 9. }{\f21\fs18 Identify these figures involved in Andrew Johnson's violation of the Tenure of Office Act, for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1.  (5 points) Johnson pissed off Congress by suspending this secretary of war.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Edwin }{\f21\fs18\ul Stanton}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  (10 points) Johnson wanted to replace Stanton with this general, but he wouldn't cooperate.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Ulysses }{\f21\fs18\ul Grant}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  (15 points) In February, 1868 Johnson got fed up, and appointed this man to serve as interim secretary of war in Stanton's place.\par 
}\pard\plain \s4 \f2005 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Lorenzo }{\f21\fs18\ul Thomas}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
10. Identify these }{\f21\fs18 American }{\f21\fs18 poets from some of their poems on a 10-5 basis.\par 
}\pard \s4\tx900 {\f21\fs18 1.  }{\f21\fs18 (10 points) \ldblquote Portrait d'une Femme\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The River-Merchant's Wife: a Letter\rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Cantos}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Ezra }{\f21\fs18\ul Pound}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4\fi-585\li585 {\f21\fs18 2.  }{\f21\fs18 (10 points) \ldblquote Danse Russe\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Queen-Ann's-Lace\rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) \ldblquote The Red Wheelbarrow\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: William Carlos }{\f21\fs18\ul Williams}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4\fi-45\li80 {\f21\fs18 3.  }{\f21\fs18 (10 points) \ldblquote Of Mere Being\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Waving Adieu, Adieu, Adieu\rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) \ldblquote The Emperor of Ice-Cream\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: Wallace }{\f21\fs18\ul Stevens}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11. Identify the American politician, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. Born in New Haven, Connecticut, to a middle-class family, he led marches in the 1930s, seeking jobs and racial equality for blacks. In 1941 he became the first African-American to win election to the New York City Council.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. As a member of the House of Representatives from 1945 to 1971, he regularly proposed bans on federal aid to organizations practicing racial discrimination.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. In March 1967, the House of Representatives denied him his seat in Congress because of claims that he had misused government money. In 1969, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that he had been removed from Congress illegally.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Adam Clayton }{\f21\fs18\ul Powell}{\f21\fs18 , Jr.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
12. Identify the following pioneers in cell theory FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. This German isolated pepsin and discovered cells surrounding the myelin sheath, and in an 1839 book proposed the cell theory.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Theodor }{\f21\fs18\ul Schwann}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. This German botanist argued that all plant structures are composed of cells, and inspired his friend Schwann to write his book.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Jakob }{\f21\fs18\ul Schleiden}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. In 1858, this German physician and rival of Bismarck applied Schwann and Schleiden's work to pathology, claiming that disease originated in cells.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Rudolf }{\f21\fs18\ul Virchow}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 13. }{\f21\fs18 Identify these Psalms, FTP each.\par 
1.  Martin Luther's "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" is based on this psalm, which says that the Lord shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler and the noisome pestilence.\par 
\tab Answer: Psalm }{\f21\fs18\ul 91}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  It begins "By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down and wept," and includes the famous line "If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning."\par 
\tab Answer: Psalm }{\f21\fs18\ul 137}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  It asserts that "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want" and says that "though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil."\par 
}\pard\plain \s4 \f2005 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Psalm }{\f21\fs18\ul 23}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
14. Identify these architects, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. This designer of Newport's Inmos Factory and the new Lloyd's of London building is best known for co-designing the Pompidou Center with Renzo Piano.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Richard }{\f21\fs18\ul Rogers}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. He renovated the interiors of Florence's Santa Maria Novella and Santa Croce and designed the Uffizi, but is better known for a biographical work first published in 1550.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Giorgio }{\f21\fs18\ul Vasari}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. This 18th century Scottish family included four brothers. Robert was royal architect in the 1760s, his brother James succeeded him as royal architect, while brothers John and William assisted Robert as well.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul Adam}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 15. Answer the following questions about comets, for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points each) Photographs of bright comets generally show two distinct types of tails that can exist separately or together in the same comet. Name them both.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul dust}{\f21\fs18  tail and }{\f21\fs18\ul plasma}{\f21\fs18  tail\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) This comet passed by the sun at the end of 1973 but proved not to be as bright as expected.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kohoutek}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) This is the term for the cloud of gas and dust that surrounds the nucleus of the comet.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: the }{\f21\fs18\ul coma}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16.  Identify these sociologists from works, FTP each.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 City Development}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Cities in Evolution}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Sir Patrick }{\f21\fs18\ul Geddes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Mind and Society}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Vilfredo }{\f21\fs18\ul Pareto}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Structure of Social Action}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Sociological Theory and Modern Society}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Talcott }{\f21\fs18\ul Parsons\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
17. Name the authors of these plays on a 10-5 basis.\par 
1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Twelve-Pound Look}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Dear Brutus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Peter Pan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: James Matthew }{\f21\fs18\ul Barrie}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 All for the Best}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 To Clothe the Naked}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Six Characters in Search of an Author}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Luigi }{\f21\fs18\ul Pirandello}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Cabal and Love}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Bride of Messina}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 William Tell }{\f21\fs18 and}{\i\f21\fs18  Wallenstein}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Friedrich von }{\f21\fs18\ul Schiller}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 18. Identify the 20th century historians of American history, none of whom are named Schlesinger, from works, for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Culture of Cities}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 The City in History}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Lewis }{\f21\fs18\ul Mumford}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Commonwealth of Learning}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 Jefferson, Nationalism, and the Enlightenment}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Henry Steele }{\f21\fs18\ul Commager}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Grant Takes Command}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 A Stillness at Appomattox}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Bruce }{\f21\fs18\ul Catton}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 4. (5 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Social Darwinism in American Thought}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 Anti-Intellectualism in American Life\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Richard }{\f21\fs18\ul Hofstadter}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 19.  }{\f21\fs18 Answer these questions about the 2002 World Cup qualifying draw, for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points each) These two Asian countries automatically qualified for the World Cup finals as co-hosts.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Japan}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul South Korea}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points each) Identify the two previous World Cup champions who failed to be seeded in their qualification groups, and were drawn into groups with higher ranked powers Romania and Germany, respectively.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Italy}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul England}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept Britain or U.K., as Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland also compete separately)}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \par 
20. Answer these questions about post-World War I Turkey FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
1. This 1920 peace treaty between Turkey and the Allied Powers, which dissolved the Ottoman Empire and limited Turkey to the city of Constantinople and surrounding territory was accepted by Sultan Muhammed VI but was not acknowledged by nationalist opposit
ion.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Treaty of }{\f21\fs18\ul Sevres}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. As head of the Nationalist party, he rallied opposition to the treaty, overthrew the government, and created a republic with capital at Ankara.\par 
}\pard \s4\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Mustafa Kemal }{\f21\fs18\ul Ataturk}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 3. This 1923 peace treaty returned territory taken from Turkey by the Treaty of Sevres, including Eastern Thrace, Izmir, Imbros, and Tenedos to Turkey, and was accepted by Ataturk.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f21\fs18\ul Lausanne}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Identify the chemists from clues on a 15-5 basis:\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 1. (15 points) Born in 1859, he is known for his work on dissociation theory of electrolytes and on reaction rates. He was the first to recognize the "greenhouse effect" on climate.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 (5 points) This Swedish chemist won the Nobel prize for chemistry in 1903.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Svante August }{\f21\fs18\ul Arrhenius}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 2. (15 points) He isolated aluminum in 1827 and beryllium in 1828 and discovered calcium carbide, from which he obtained acetylene.\par 
(5 points) This German's synthesis of urea from ammonium cyanate in 1828 revolutionized organic chemistry.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Friedrich }{\f21\fs18\ul Wohler}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Identify the American, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 
A. Born in Piqua, Kansas, he was the son of touring vaudeville performers, with whom he first appeared on stage at the age of three. He began his motion-picture career in 1917, supporting the established comedian Fatty Arbuckle in The Butcher Boy, and over
 three years he made more than 12 other short films. \par 
B. Keaton's first
 feature-length film was The Saphead (1920), but more notable early efforts were The Three Ages (1923) and Our Hospitality (1923). In 1924 he created the first of what are considered his masterpieces, Sherlock, Jr., a fantasy in which a projectionist falls
 asleep and dreams himself onto the screen. \par 
C. His 20 short films with Joseph Schenck created the distinctive persona that would thereafter characterize his work: the quiet, undemonstrative, determined man with a blank countenance who seemed oblivious to 
danger and stoically able to endure endless frustrations. He was sometimes called The Great Stone Face.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Buster Keaton\par 
\par 
Identify the literary figure (30-20-10)\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 A. After he arranges the release of some unfairly imprisoned Samoans, the grateful natives built a stone road called the "Road of the Loving Hearts" from their village to his home.\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 B. His simple grave atop Mount Vaea (VAY-ah) in Samoa is marked with a gravestone bearing the verse he wrote for himself, a verse which contains the lines: "Home is the sailor, home from the sea / And the hunter home from the hill."
\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 C. The Samoans, who had no concept of "fiction" in their culture, believed this man's stories and novels to be true, and thus believed their melancholy friend to have fallen into possession of "The Bottle Imp."\par 
}\pard \s4 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Robert Louis Stevenson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}