{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f390\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f391\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f393\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f394\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f395\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f396\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f397\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f398\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2643523\rsid13717563}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info
{\author rluo}{\operator rluo}{\creatim\yr2006\mo1\dy20\hr18\min32}{\revtim\yr2006\mo1\dy20\hr18\min39}{\version2}{\edmins6}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords6129}{\nofchars34941}{\*\company UCLA}{\nofcharsws40989}{\vern16437}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale125\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot2643523 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Academic Competition Federation.
\par Regionals Tournament.
\par February 4, 2006.
\par 
\par Packet by UCLA.
\par Questions by Ray Luo, Charles Meigs, Dwight Wynne.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Literature 5/5
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par The musical grou
p Sick Dick and the Volkswagens is mentioned in this novel, and a play by Richard Wharfinger plays a prominent role in this novel, as does a third century bishop of Jerusalem and the Austro-Hungarian noble family of Thurn und Taxis.  The main character's 
p
sychiatrist apparently did an internship in Buchenwald, and another character has built a supposed working version of Maxwell's Demon.  Though the main character is originally from a town called Kinneret-among-the-Pines, most of the novel is set in a fict
i
onal suburb of Los Angeles.  As in another work of the author, the company Yoyodyne, Inc. is referenced, and the central plot involves a long dead organization leaving male in boxes with the slogan W.A.S.T.E.  Featuring such characters as Dr. Hilarius, Jo
hn Nefastis, and Genghis Cohen, an avid philatelist, it concerns the underground postal organization Trystero.  FTP name this novel featuring Oedipa Maas, wife of Mucho Maas, a novel of Thomas Pynchon.
\par ANSWER: }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Crying of Lot 49}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par A letter from Willa De
an Purter reveals the death of Cleotha Holman, the dedicatee of a song sung by one who feels like family among strangers, and like strangers among family, the suit-selling gambling uncle Wining Boy.  Another uncle Doaker tells the story of how the ghosts 
o
f the Yellow Dog pushed Sutter down the well in revenge for the burning of a boxcar caused by Boy Charles's retaking of Joel Nolander's musical instrument given in exchange for Robert Sutter's slaves.  Berniece saves and educates her brother Boy Willie by
 invoking the ghosts of her ancestors Esther, Ola, and Charles, by pounding on the titular keyboard in, FTP this play by August Wilson.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Piano Lesson}{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par Title's the same.  One notes that "repeated evidence has proved that it can live on what can not
 revive its youth" as "the sea grows old in it," and the "external marks of abuse" on "this defiant edifice" as it "wade through black jade."  The other relates the experience of looking at it "through the lenses of old scratched isinglass," as it is "spe
ckled with barnacles, fine rosettes of lime, and infested with tiny white sea-lice," but finally let go when rainbow filled the boat.  FTP Marianne Moore and Elizabeth Bishop both wrote poems about what "tremendous" animal?
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  "The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fish}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 "
\par 
\par DW
\par It is the name of Bathsheba Everdene\rquote s father in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Far From the Madding Crowd}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , and Tom Canty\rquote s father in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
The Prince and the Pauper}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .  This name also applies to the landlord of the Maypole Inn in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Barnaby Rudge}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
, and the owner of Skeet and Nig in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Call of the Wild}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .  It may be better known as the name of Mr. Oakhurst, the main character in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
The Outcasts of Poker Flat}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , or as the name of Mr. Watson, who chronicled most of the adventures of his friend Sherlock Holmes.  FTP identify this common first name, also shared by the auth
ors of the Book of Revelation and }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Grapes of Wrath}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 John}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par DW
\par This short story contains the interesting sequence of letters d-h-c-m-r-l-c-h-t-d-j.  The title object contains a narrow hallway with a mirror that \'93faithfully duplicates all appearances,\'94 and two closets, one on the left of the hallway in which 
\'93one may sleep standing up,\'94 and one on the right, which appears to have little more than a toilet. It is defined once as \'93a sphere whose exact center is any one of its hexagons and whose circumference is inaccessible\'94 and a second time as 
\'93a ubiquitous and lasting system of hexagonal galleries.\'94  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Axaxaxos}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 mlo}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , }{
\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Combed Thunderclap, }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 and }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Plaster Cramp}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
 are just three of the books the narrator oversees.  FTP identify this Borges short story about a collection of an infinite number of books.
\par ANSWER: \'93The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Library of Babel}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 \'94
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx2610\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 CM
\par Answer these questions about two authors who set their most famous works in the same country.  FTSNOP.
\par [10]  "Justine," "Balthazar," "Mount Olive," and "Clea," make up this tetralogy.
\par ANSWER: }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Alexandria Quartet}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [5]  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Alexandria Quartet }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 was the magnum opus of this British author.
\par ANSWER: Lawrence }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Durrell}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [5]  This novelist, famed for the }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Cairo Trilogy}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , is the only Arab to have won a Nobel Prize in Literature.
\par ANSWER: Naguib }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Mahfouz}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This novel gained Mahfouz the controversy which ended up in Mahfouz getting cut in 1994.  It tells stories of the major prophets of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and most controversially depicts Muhammad.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER: }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Children of Gebelawi}{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; 
}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 or }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Children of the Alley}{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 or }{
\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Aulaad Haratina}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par Plays by Ben Jonson.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Kitely and his wife are tricked by Brainworm, Stephen is made fun of for his stupidity, Kno'w
ell is suspicious of his son's efforts to escape, and the braggart Captain Bobadil is put down by Downright in this early character study with a sequel.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Every Man in His Humour}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
  Dame Pliant accompanies Kastril, a young man who wants to be gallant, while Pertinax Surly reveals the plot as friend of Sir Epicure Mammon, a knight who'd like to indulge in sensual pleasure, in the shop at Lovewit's house set up by Subtle.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Alchemist}{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
  The titular new wife of Morose, who can't stand noise, is revealed to be a boy trained by Sir Dauphine, who was disinherited by Morose until the new wife starts chatting endlessly as soon as she marries Morose.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Epicene}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{
\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Silent Woman}{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par Identify the following types of poetic meters.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Also called strong-stress meter, this meter is organized by stress only and is exemplified by Old English poems as well as Samuel Taylor Coleridge's "Cristabel."
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 accent}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ual meter
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Prominent in French, Italian, and Japanese, this type of meter measures only the number of vowel or glide nuclei in a line, as in Marianne Moore's "Poetry."
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 syllabic}{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 meter
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Found in Sanskrit and Greek poetry, this meter measures feet according to duration of utterance, an attempt at which is Edmund Spenser's "Iambic Trimetrum."
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 quantitative}{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 meter
\par 
\par DW
\par Two young men vie for the love of Katrina Van Tassel in Irving's "Legend of Sleepy Hollow."  FTPE.
\par [5,5]  For five points each, name those two men.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Ichabod Crane}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  and }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Brom Bones}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; accept either name for both
\par [10, 10]  Now for 10 points each, name their horses.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Gunpowder}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  (Crane's horse) and }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Daredevil}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  (Bones's horse)
\par 
\par DW
\par Family literature.  Name these sons.  FTSNOP.
\par [5,5]  For five points each, name the two sons of Taras Bulba.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Ostap}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  and }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Andrii}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  For ten points, name the illegitimate brother Karamazov.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Smerdyakov}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  For a final ten, name the son of Nikolai Petrovich Kirsanov in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fathers and Sons}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Arkady}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Arkasha}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 )
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 History 5/5
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par DW
\par The 2005 Supreme Court case }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Sherrill, New York  v. Oneida Nation of New York}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  involved interpretation of the 1790 act of the same name as this better-known one, which the }{
\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 San Pedro }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
was accused of violating in an 1817 Supreme Court case.  Sections 3 and 4 of that act set the date at which it went into effect as May 20, while Section 2 gave the penalty for violating it as a fine of between one hundred and ten thousand dollars and a ja
i
l sentence of between one month and one year.  The second of three acts passed in response to the Berlin and Milan decrees and the Orders of Council, it was designed to alleviate economic problems caused by the passage of the Embargo Act.  Succeeded by Ma
con\rquote s Bill No. 2, FTP identify this 1809 act that restricted trade with Britain and France but relaxed the embargo on neutral countries.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Non-Intercourse}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Act (accept extremely early }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Indian Non-Intercourse}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Act)
\par 
\par DW
\par He escaped from a life sentence by disguising himself as a stonemason and walking away from the fortress of Ham.  As an exile in England he joined Wellington\rquote 
s special forces to suppress the Chartists, and while in Italy he had participated in the 1830 uprising.  However, it wasn\rquote t until he 
defeated Ledru-Rollin, Lamartine, and Cavaignac that he became the ruler of his home country.  He created a Council of State and a Senate, which didn\rquote 
t do anything important, and a Legislative Body, whose members were elected by universal male suffrage in corrupt elections.  After dissolving the original Legislative Assembly on the forty-sixth anniversary of his uncle\rquote 
s greatest victory, he declared himself emperor in 1852.  FTP who was this man who ruled France until his defeat at Sedan in 1870?
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Napoleon III}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; do not prompt on "Napoleon"
\par 
\par CM
\par He invented a base-eight number
 system that he thought better suited to military use due to the high amount of cubic boxes for storage.  Fears of an invasion of Western Europe by this man were quelled at a meeting at Altranstadt with Malborough, which had been fanned by his defeat of t
h}{\f390\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 e Saxons at Punitz.  While a prisoner at Bender, he earned the epithet Demirba\'ba
, a Turkish term translating as "old-timer."  A member of the Pfalz-Zweibrucken ruling house, his most famous military engagements came in a war started by a league formed again}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
st this man under the guidance of the Livonian agitator, Johann Reinhold Patkul.  His quick landing in Sjaelland led to the peace of Trevendal and another one of the members of the league would be extinguished after victories at Klissow and Pultusk and th
e
 siege of Thorn and the capture of Cracow.  Eventually dying at Frederiksted, he vainly tried to enlist the help of Mazeppa, whose capital at Baturin had been destroyed before he could help this man.  His last major victory came at Holoszczyn, and though 
h
e would lose this war, the victor still lost its port of Taganrog to the Turks.  Having soundly defeated opposing forces at Narva, he made the mistake of turning against Poland before finally marching to the Ukraine.  FTP name this man, only 27 by the tim
e he was finally defeated at Poltava, the king of Sweden who led forces in the Great Northern War.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Charles XII}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; prompt on }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Charles}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
Karl XII
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par Purchased by the Florentine Acciaiuoli in 1390, it had earlier been center of a state whose official l
anguage was Catalan.  In the later part of its Catalan rule, the land to its northwest was conquered by a company of Navarrese mercenaries, echoing the manner in which the Catalans had come to power here.  They had defeated Walter V of Brienne at Halymros
,
 who had hired the company only to not meet his obligations to his company.  Walter had succeeded the French knightly family of de la Roche in power here, which had held power for over a hundred years.  Its early prestige had greatly been checked by a 529
 
closure that dispersed intellectuals to distant Harran and Ctesiphon, the latter in Sassanid Persia.  Though Venice would twice launch attacks on this city, it would pass into Muslim hands in 1456.  Finally returned to Christian rule in 1833, this is, FTP
 what city, made capital in the same year by King Othon I, but perhaps more famous for its ancient prowess under such leaders as Pericles.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Athens}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Athinai}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  (accept }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Attica}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  and }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Duchy of Athens}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  until \'93city\'94 is mentioned)
\par 
\par CM
\par Among the men who played a part in this man's assassination was a eunuch named Aspamithres, chamberlain to this king.  Though the assassination of this king along with his oldest son should have allowed Hytaspes to ascend the throne, Hytaspes was in Bactr
i
a, and this man's third son took power, executing the primary assassin, Artabanus.  Among the most important inscriptions from this man's reign is an inscription in which he claims to have destroyed the den of the daivas, leading some to believe that this
 
man was religiously intolerant.  Earlier in his reign he had gained notoriety for taking a statue of Bel from the temple in Babylon and his earliest military activity included quashing a revolt in Egypt.  He is most famous for a grand expedition that set 
o
ut from Sardis and included among its preparations the digging of a canal through the Chalcidice, a campaign that saw Persian victory at Artemisium and Thermopylae before a resounding naval defeat at Salamis.  FTP name this Persian king whose reign saw th
e latter stages of the Persian Wars started by his father Darius I.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Xerxes}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  I; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Khshayarsha}{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 (n) I}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Ahasuerus}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  I; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Achashverosh}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  I
\par 
\par DW
\par Answer these questions about the political career of Charles Evans Hughes.  FTPE.
\par [10]  Hughes served discontinuous terms on the Supreme Court, once as an Associate Justice and once as Chief Justice. Name either president who appointed him
\par ANSWER: William Howard }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Taft}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or Herbert }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Hoover}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  As Chief Justice, Hughes fought against this bill proposed by Franklin Roosevelt, which would add six new justices to the Supreme Court.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Court Reorganization Bill}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; grudgingly accept anything with the words }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 court-packing plan}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  Hughes first gained public attention with his appointment as grand inquisitor on this 1905 committee that investigated illegal practices at Equitable and other life insurance companies.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Armstrong}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Committee; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Armstrong}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Investigation
\par 
\par DW
\par Canada, from before it was really Canada.  FTPE.
\par [10]  This 1774 Act was deemed \'93Intolerable\'94 by colonists but probably prevented rebellion in the namesake region.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Quebec}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Act
\par [10]  This 1839 report on Canadian affairs, written by its then-governor, is considered one of the most important documents leading to the British Commonwealth of Nations.
\par ANSWER: (Earl of) }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Durham}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 \rquote s Report
\par [10]  In the year before they finally got around to creating a constitution for themselves, a group of Irish Americans from this secret society led the last American attack on Canada.  Unless, of course, you believe all that 
stuff in the movies really happened.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fenians
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par Stuff about a city.  FTPE.
\par [10]  After WWI, sovereignty over this city was claimed by the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes, but a 1919 seizure led to a state known as the Regency of Carnaro being established here.  After the treaty of Rapallo, it became independent and was an
nexed to Italy in 1924.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fiume}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 R(ij)eka}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This man, perhaps better known as a poet, established himself as "Duce" in the seizure of Fiume and declared war on Italy, establishing a prototypical fascist state with many similarities to Mussolini's Italy.
\par ANSWER: Gabriele }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 D\rquote Annunzio}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This man worked at the US Consulate in Fiume, though he is much more famous for co-sponsoring a bill outlawing contracts in which the worker waived his right to join a labor union.
\par ANSWER: Fiorello }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 LaGuardia
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par Answer these questions about the Medieval Baltic.  FTPE.
\par [10]  This group of privateers harassed Denmark in the late 14th century, eventually occupying the island of Gotland as a base for their piracy.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Victual Brothers}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Vitalienbr\'fcder}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fetaliebr\'f6der}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  Queen Margaret of Denmark conceded the island of Gotland to this group then under the leadership of Grand Master Konrad of Jungingen, which expelled the Victual Brothers.  They were famously defeated 12 years after the conquest by Poland-Lithuania.

\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Teutonic Order}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Teutonic Knights}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Deutscher Orden}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Sanct\'e6 Mari\'e6 Theutonicorum}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 N\'e9met Lovagrend}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\f390\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Zakon Kry\'bfacki}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This 1410 battle saw Grand Master Ulrich von Junginen fall along with many Teutonic Order leaders, but the Polish-Lithuanian forces could not take the Order's castle at Marienburg, and after a treaty, gained little from the Order.
\par ANSWER: Battle of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Tannenberg}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or Battle of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Grunwald}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or Battle of }{
\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 \'8ealgiris
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par Answer these questions about Russo-Japanese conflict.  FTPE.
\par [10]  The Russian Baltic Fleet was soundly defeated by Japanese forces under General Togo at this 1905 naval battle.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Tsushima}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Straits Battle; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Sea of Japan}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Naval Battle
\par [10]  This battle, fought in 1939, was in response to an incursion of M
ongolian cavalry into the territory of the Japanese puppet state Manchukuo, and resulted in a Russian victory that may have encouraged Japan to fight against the U.S. rather than Russia in the Pacific.
\par ANSWER: Battle of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Khalkin Gol}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or Battle of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Khalkhin Lake}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  or }{
\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Nomonhan}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Incident
\par [10]  In an attempt to escape Port Arthur with his Russian Pacific fleet intact, Admiral Wilgelm Vitgeft's force was defeated by the Japanese in this 1904 precursor to Tsushima Strait.
\par ANSWER: Battle of }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Shantung}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  or Battle of the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Yellow Sea
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Science 5/5
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par The RACE type of this process is a special case of the achored type of this process, which utilizes an universal linker.  The hot-start version separates the components before the 1st step, and the touch-down version decreases hybridization temperatures o
ver time.  The ARMS system utilizes the allele-specific type, which relies on single nucleotide distinctions near the 3 prime end.  Its product usually has an adenosine 3 prime overhang, and enzymes from }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
Pyrococcus furiosus}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  have been used thanks to their 3 
prime-5 prime exonuclease proofreading, but VENT and taq pol are also common.  Taking about 30 cycles, FTP name this DNA amplification technique invented by Kary Mullis.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 p}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 olymerase }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 c}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 hain }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 r}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 eaction
\par 
\par RL
\par It is supported by the exponential increase in heat 
capacity of vanadium, with an exponential constant equal to half the energy gap, which at T=0 is 3KT_c, which corresponds to photons in the microwave region of the spectrum.  Its explanation differs from those for Bose-Einstein condensation in that both s
i
gn change and lack of sign change label exchanges are considered involving both boson-like and fermion-like particles.  It explains that in the absence of lattice vibrations, the critical temperature would be zero, a result derived from the isotope effect
.  Postulating a band gap below which Cooper pairs can form to mediate a state of reduced resistivity, FTP name this theory of superconductivity named for the initials of three physicists.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 B}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ardeen-}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 C}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ooper-}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 S}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 chrieffer theory
\par 
\par DW
\par No anti selectivity has bee
n found for this reaction, and when multiple products are possible, there is little preference except when one product involves a double bond conjugated to an aromatic ring.  This reaction takes place on its own between 100 and 150 degrees Celsius, and, u
nlike Hofmann elimination, its mechanism involves a cyclic flow of six electrons.  FTP identify this elimination reaction in which an amine oxide decomposes into a dialkylhydroxylamine and an amine, named after its discoverer at MIT.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Cope}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  elimination
\par 
\par DW
\par One class of solvers of these is based on Richardsonian extrapolation, and far surpasses the other in stiff problems.  Other solvers can be implicit, such as Adams-Moulton, or explicit, such as Adams-Bashford, and some non-iterative ones add a middle
 step called a modifier.  However, these so-called predictor-corrector methods are not self-starting and must be initiated using Runge-Kutta algorithms.  Mathematically, they can be solved using either the Laplace transform or the D operator, both of whic
h give an n-degree polynomial.  FTP identify this type of equation involving one or more dependent variables, only one independent variable, and one or more derivatives of the dependent variable with respect to the independent one.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ordinary differential equation}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 s; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ODE}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 s
\par 
\par DW
\par It was determined in 1973 to be 6,300 light-years away, which gives it an apparent magnitude of -3.2.  About 10 light-years in diameter, it was misclassified as a planetary nebula in 1919, and William Herschel originally thought
 it was a stellar system that could be resolved with larger telescopes.  The inner part of this appears bluish and emits synchrotron radiation.  It also contains NP0532, a pulsar, and an X-Ray source, Taurus X-1.  Independently discovered by John Bevis an
d Charles Messier, FTP identify this nebula, the remains of a 1054 supernova, designated M1.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Crab}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  nebula}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par Answer the following about vesicular traffic.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Lying past the end of the appratus for which it is named, this network serves as a branch point for constitutive and regulated secretion pathways.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 t}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 rans-}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 G}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 olgi }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 n}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 etwork
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Proteases and V-class proton pumps are packaged into endosomes at the trans-Golgi network, to be sent to this organelle that requires a low luminal pH.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 lysosome}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
  Vesicular trafficking can be tracked by transfecting cells with a temperature sensitive vesicular stomatitis virus G fused to a gene for the green type of this colorful molecule used to monitor transport, an alternative to autoradiography.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  green }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 f}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 lourescent }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 p}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 rotein
\par 
\par RL
\par People involved with the photoelectric effect.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   In experiments that first confirmed the existence of electromagnetic waves, this scientist ironically noted that electric discharge occurred more readily between t
wo electrodes when ultraviolet light falls on one of them.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Heinrich }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Hertz}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   An assistant of Hertz, this man followed up on experiments of Hallwachs, showing that ultraviolet light facilitates the discharge by causing electrons to be emitted from th
e cathode surface, and giving the first accepted explanation of the photoelectric effect.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Philipp Eduard Anton }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Lenard}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   In 1914, this scientist validated Einstein's account of the photoelectric effect, noting that below the cutoff frequency, no eff
ect occurs, which is partly responsible for his winning the Nobel Prize in 1923.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Robert Andrews }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Millikan}{\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par DW
\par Terms from chemistry.  FTPE.
\par [10]  This is a mixture of two or more substances in which one phase is suspended as a large number of small particles in a second phase.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 colloid}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This is the term for a colloid in which a liquid is suspended in another liquid.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 emulsion}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This is the process by which colloids settle out through dissolving salts in a solution.  It often occurs in river deltas when clay particles are filtered out upon contact with the ocean's salt water.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 flocculation
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par DW
\par The Greek letter lambda is universally used as a parameter in the definition of two different random variables.  FTPE.
\par [10]  The probability mass function for this type of random variable is given by the formula e to the negative lambda times lambda to the x over x factorial, for integers x greater than or equal to zero.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Poisson}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  random variable or distribution
\par [10]  The probability density function for this type of random variable is given by the formula lambda times e to the negative lambda x for x greater than 0 and 0 for x less than or equal to zero.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 exponential}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  random variable
\par [10]  The exponential random variable is continuous because x can take any value, but the restriction that x must be an integer makes the Poisson random variable this type.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 discrete}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par DW
\par Answer the following about an unexplained mystery.  FTPE.
\par [10]  All that is known conclusively about the explosion near this Russian river is that it occurred about 7:15 AM on June 30, 1908, but the most popular explanation is that it was caused by a comet hitting the earth.
\par }{\fs20\lang1053\langfe1033\langnp1053\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER: Podkomennaya }{\b\fs20\ul\lang1053\langfe1033\langnp1053\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Tunguska}{\fs20\lang1053\langfe1033\langnp1053\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  River; or 
}{\b\fs20\ul\lang1053\langfe1033\langnp1053\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Tunguska}{\fs20\lang1053\langfe1033\langnp1053\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  event
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 [10]  The Jackson-Ryan theory, which has since been discredited but somehow still makes its way into popular fiction, states that the explosion was caused by a small one of these passing through the earth.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 black hole}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  One explosion that is almost universally accepted as being formed by an extraterrestrial object is the Chixiclub impact site, which is responsible for the creation of this geologic boundary.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 K-T}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  boundary
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Religion Mythology Philosophy 3/3
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par This sect's name 
has etymologically developed into a slur against homosexuals in Hungarian, and among the religious texts they accept is the likely fraudulent Pauline epistle to the Laodiceans, and their name was a translation of the Syriac Massaliani, which corresponded 
t
o the Greek Euchites persecuted after the 1231 Council of Trier.  Called Patareni in Bosnia and Popelicans by the historian Geoffroi de Villehardouin, they accepted the doctrine of adoptionism, which arose in 8th century Spain and suggested that Christ ha
d
 been born human but had been adopted by the divine God. Their creation myth involved God spawning Satanail and Michael, the former of whom created the world and became Satan upon the dropping of the "-il" suffix, meaning god in Hebrew.  Thus, the goal of
 
this sect was to avoid earthly pleasures, as the earth in its entirety was a manifestation and creation of Satan.  Only the creation of man had required God's intervention.  Founded by its eponymous Bulgarian founder in the tenth century and roughly simil
ar to Western dualistic heresies such as Albigensianism and Waldensianism, FTP name this medieval Balkan heresy.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Bogumil}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ism; prompt on }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Paulicianism}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  or }{
\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Pavlikiani}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Patareni}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  before mentioned
\par 
\par DW
\par One woman by this name gave birth to twins on Mount Cithairon after being dragged back from Sicyon by her uncle Lycus.  She was the grand-aunt of Oedipus and the mother-in-law of Niobe, and her sons Amphion and Zethus built the walls of Thebes.  The bette
r-known woman by this name is often called by a different one, or sometimes is said to be the sister of a woman with that name.  In any case, she was abducted after bringing presents on board a stranger\rquote 
s ship, prompting her followers to wage war with Athens.  Sometimes called Hippolyta, FTP identify this Amazon queen and wife of Theseus.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Antiope}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par RL
\par He critiqued Plato in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Dissemination}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  and wrote an autobiography titled }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Circumfession}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
.  He believed that the meaning of a word is deferred to the meanings of words it contrasts with, and thought that neither speech nor writing is primary to the other.  His }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Glas}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  is a two columned book containing Hegelian philosophy on one side and discussions of Jean Genet on the other.  An analyst of conceptual distinctions, he wrote }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
Margins of Philosophy}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Writing and Difference}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , and }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Speech and Phenomena}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .  FTP name this Jewish French philosopher of deconstruction who wrote }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Of Grammatology}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Jacques }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Derrida}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par CM
\par Answer the following questions about Tibetan Buddhism.  FTPE.
\par [10]  This temple complex is perhaps the most renowned in the world, and is home to the most venerated statue in the Tibetan faith, that of the Jowo Shakyamuni Buddha.  It is located in Lhasa.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Jokhang}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Temple
\par [10]  The largest independent country with a majority Tibetan Buddhist population, this country was ruled by the eighth Bogdo Gegen, the third highest figure in the Tibetan Buddhist hierarchy, up until 1921.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Mongolia}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  The spiritual leader of this school of Tibetan Buddhism is the Ganden Tripa, the first of whom may either have been Tsongkapa or Gyaltsab Je, though the most famous member of this school is the Dalai Lama.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Geluk}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 pa Tibetan Buddhism; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Yellow Hat}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Tibetan Buddhism
\par 
\par DW
\par Although it is one of the best-known Egyptian myths, it was never actually a story in Egypt's set of myths.  FTPE.
\par [10]  This god was hacked into fourteen pieces by his brother Set, although his wife Isis found thirteen of them and made a replacement for the fourteenth out of wood.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Osiris}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  If I know you correctly, you\rquote ve already guessed what that fourteenth piece was, so instead you get to name the area of Phoenecia where Osiris\rquote  coffin came ashore after Set\rquote s first attempt to kill him.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Byblus}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  The most complete account of the story comes, surprisingly, from Plutarch, in which Set\rquote s name is changed to this Greek one.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Typhoeus
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par Works by Soren Kierkegaard.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Beginning with "In Vino Veritas" modeled on the banquet from Plato's }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Symposium}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , which shows contempt 
for the recently married Regine Olsen, it modifies }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Either/Or}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  to separate out a religious sphere, and dissects his affair in "Guilty?/Not Guilty?"
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Stadier paa livets vei}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
Stages on Life's Way}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Written under the name Johannes Climacus, it follows up on attacks of Hegel by the earlier }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Philosophical Fragments}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  by arguing that subjectivity is truth, and that existence cannot be systemitized because it is always developing.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Afsluttende uvidenskabelig efterskrift}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Concluding Unscientific Postscript}{\b\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
to the Philosophical Fragments, A Mimic-Pathetic-Dialectic Composition, an Existentialist Contribution}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Written under the name Anti-Climacus, it discusses }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Concept of Dread}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
 by deriding Socrates' definition of sin as ignorance as inferior, and argues for religious writings that adopt the manner of a physician treating a patient.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Sygdommen til doden}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{
\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Sickness Unto Death}{\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fine Arts 3/3
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par The signature of the artist in this work is an etching off of the background, which is decorated with a technique also used for the Palais Stoclet friezes in Brussels.  Housed in the Upper Belvedere, it shows a woman's hand sliding beneath the cloak of a 
m
an's before emerging to grasp the man's right hand.  The St. Apollinare in Classe near Ravenna is the inspiration for the field of flowers, on which the woman kneels with the edge of her feet standing next to nothingness.  Black and white rectangles decor
ate the man's cloak while circles of flowers surrounded by gold tesserae cover the woman's dress and hair.  FTP name this Gustav Klimt painting of an act of love.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Kiss}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par RL
\par The strings in the background of this work represents "the silence of the dru
ids--who know, see, and hear nothing," whereas the trumpet phrase repeated 7 times over it alternates with contrapuntal woodwinds that accelerates in speed and loudness during the course of the work.  Revised in the 1930s, it is often paired with }{
\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Central Park in the Dark in the Good Old Summer Time}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
 in performance, where the titular entity is mocked after what the composer calls "a secret conference" finds that the voice of the flute's "invisible reply" comes to nothing.  Subtitled "A Contemplation of a Seri
ous Matter," FTP name this Charles Ives work that may lead to a dead tossup.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Unanswered Question}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par RL
\par He perpetrated the "Great James Robbery" when he enticed Juan Tizol away from Harry James, taking along Willie Smith and Louis Bellson, the latter performing the drum solos in his "Skin Deep."  3 of his stars left in 1950 to join his former band member Jo
hnny Hodges, but he continued to reinvent himself with works like }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Drum Is a Woman}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  and }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Far East Suite}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .  He was back in the spotlight after a solo by tenor saxophonist Paul Gonsalves in "Diminuendo & Crescendo in Blue" for the Newport festival.  Writing "Take
 the 'A' Train" with Billy Strayhorn, FTP name this jazz composer who earned his rank at the Cotton club with the works "It Don't Mean a Thing" and "Mood Indigo."
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Edward Kennedy "Duke" }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Ellington}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par RL
\par Name these early Renaissance sculptors.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   He sculpted the bronze relief }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Zacharias in the Temple}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
 for the baptistery of the Siena Cathedral and well as the classically nude }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Creation of Adam}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
 in San Petronio of Bologna, and is known for the Fonte Gaia fountain in Siena, near his birthplace.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Jacopo della }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Quercia}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   His }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Flying Angel}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  from }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Assumption}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  over Porta della Mandorla of Florence Cathedral was done just prior to his early death, but he's best known for }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Quattro Santi Coronati}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
, four roman looking saints in Or San Michele in Florence.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Nanni di }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Banco}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   He sculpted the 1st Renaissance contrapposto in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 St. Mark}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
 of Or San Michele and a pumpkin-headed Habbukuk in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Zuccone}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  of an empty niche on Florence Cathedral, as well as a bronze }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 David}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  and the equestrian statue of Erasmo di Narni }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Gattamelata}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Donatello}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; prompt on "Donato di Niccolo di Betto Bardi"
\par 
\par RL
\par Identify these films of the French New Wave.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   An altar to Honore de Balzac sits in the room of young Antoine Doinel, who gets put into a reform school for stealing a typew
riter, and figures out that his mom is cheating on his dad, in this most famous Nouvelle Vague film by Francois Truffaut.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Les }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 quatre cents coups}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 400 Blows}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Based on the novel }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Invention of Morel}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 , this Alain Resnais film of the stream of
 consciousness school is about the stranger X's possible meeting with the woman A, which he claims occurred 365 days ago and ended with him luring her away.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 L'}{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 annee derniere a Marienbad}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Last Year At Marienbad}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   This later Jean-Luc Godard film t
ells the story of the Virgin as a basketball-playing high school kid who has the great quote that "to be chaste is to know every possibility."  By the way, the angel Gabriel is a thug, and Joseph is an asshole.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Je vous salue, Marie}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Hail Mary}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par RL
\par Name these works of operatic music based on Sir Walter Scott novels.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   This Gaetano Donizetti opera used Italianized names like Enrico for Henry Ashton and Arturo for Arthur Bucklaw, adapting a Scott novel about a Ravenswood heroine who goes mad
 after being forced into marrying Hayston of Bucklaw.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Lucia di Lammermoor}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
Lucy of Lammermoor}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   This Hector Berlioz overture is based on Scott's retelling of the legend of Robert MacGregor, sometimes called the Scottish Robin Hood, who becomes a
n outlaw when his land was seized by James Montrose.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Rob Roy}{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Overture}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   This Georges Bizet opera is based on Scott's second chronicle of the Canongate, a novel subtitled, or sometimes alternatively called }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
St. Valentine's Day}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Les }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 jolie fille de Perth}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{
\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fair Maid of Perth}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Social Science Geography 2/2
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par In its appendix on character, its author points out the productive orientation in an ideal humanistic community as opposed to our current society's marketing orientation, a theme he revisits in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Man for Himself}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
.  The titular problem arose when Renaissance impinged on the structure of the Middle Ages, and socialism extended responsibility to caring for everyone else.  Masochism and sadism are both authoritarian methods for the titular process
, while destructiveness and automaton conformity explain Nazist terrorism and uniformity in modern society.  Referenced in }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Art of Loving}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
, FTP name this book about reversing the effects of alienation, by Erich Fromm.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Escape from Freedom}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{
\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Fear of Freedom}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par CM
\par The central region of this country is dominated by mountain ranges such as the Choke [CHOAK], Mendebo, and Ahmar, or "Red" mountains, though the tallest mountain, Ras Dashan, is in the Semien Mountains in the northwest.  Among its most impo
rtant rivers is the east-flowing Awash, but the country's most notable river, known there as the Abbai, has its source near the city of Bahir Dar.  Among lesser known provinces in this country are Benishangul-Gamaz, Gambella, and Oromia, and the nation is
 
home to a small northern part of the lake formerly known as Lake Rudolf.  Home to Lake Tana in the northwest and the regions of Tigray in the north and Ogaden in the southeast, this is, FTP what nation, the source of the Blue Nile River with coastline in 
the independent Republic of Eritrea and capital at Addis Ababa.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Ethiopia}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Ityopp\rquote ya
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par It notes the importance of the "shill," a member of a team who "provides a visible model for the audience of the kind of responses the performers are seeking."  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Name this 1959 work of sociology that analyzes the way people establish themselves to others by giving a performance akin to taking a role in a drama.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The }{\b\i\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Presentation of Self in Everyday Life}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 

\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Name the interactionist sociologist who wrote }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
, who also described institutionalization in his }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Asylums}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Erving }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Goffman}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
  Goffman calls this the "part of the individual's performance which regularly functions in a general and fixed fashion to define the situation for those who observe the performance," establishing the setting for the role taken by the actor.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 front}{\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx2610\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Name these geographic features of Scotland.  FTPE.
\par [10]  The "Little" version of this separates the Isle of Skye from North Uist, while the larger "North" variety, commonly known just as this, separates Lewis from the Scottish mainland.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Minch}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This mountain range starts southwest of Aberdeen and gives it name to the region dominated by Aberdeen.  It goes to the west coast of Scotland and features Ben Nevis, the tallest mountain in the UK.
\par ANSWER: The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Grampian}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 (s) Mountains
\par [10]  Surrounded by the islands of Mainland, Hoy, Graemsey, Burray, and South Ronaldsay, this body of water is perhaps best known for being an important Royal Navy base in the Orkneys.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Scapa Flow
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Literature History Science 2/2
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par A tribute to Eugene Onegin, the main character in this man's most famous novel is nam
ed after a river in the far north of Russia, which runs 1,140 miles through Komi province to its namesake sea.  He translated and published an Azeri story of a minstrel, Ashik Kerib, having grown interested in the region from trips to spas as a sickly chi
l
d.  Among his poems were "The Novice" and "The Demon," and he suffered a similar fate to Pushkin at the hands of the officer Martynov, ending his life at age twenty-seven.  The inspiration for early works such as "The Circassians" and "Prisoner of the Cau
casus" would later provide the setting to his most famous novel, a work consisting of six novellas, the longest of which is titled "Princess Mary."  FTP name this writer most famous for his depiction of the superfluous man Pechorin in his }{
\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 A Hero of Our Time}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 .
\par ANSWER: Mikhail Yuryevich }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Lermontov
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par RL
\par It inhibits binding of TGF-beta type bone morphogenetic protein, allowing posterior neural plate development in the presence of retinoic acid.  It affects transcription factors of }{\i\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Sox}{
\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  genes and secretes the protein
s follistatin, noggin, and chordin, which bind to RI and RII subunits of BMP receptors.  First uncovered in newts, it can generate its own axial mesoderm and notochord after being transplanted to a host, allowing formation of two nervous systems.  Localiz
ed to the gray crescent on the dorsal lip of the blastopore in the gastrula, FTP name this control center that directs embryonic differentiation, often named for a German 1935 Nobel winner.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Spemann}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 -Mangold organizer region; or the }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
Organizer}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par 
\par CM
\par Answer these questions about the reign of Trajan.  FTPE.
\par [10]  Trajan took this capital city of the Dacians and established a colony near to the site.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Sarmisegetuza}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  Among the mysteries of Trajan's reign is how he came to annex this kingdom after the death of Rabbel II Soter, but legions were stationed in Petra and Bosra by 107.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Nabataea}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  In 116, Trajan captured the cities of Susa and Ctesiphon, deposing the king Osroes I of this longtime rival of Rome.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Parthia}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ; or }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Arsacid}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  Empire
\par 
\par RL
\par Stories by John Cheever.  FTPE.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
  Charlie the elevator operator hoards a room full of presents and dinners for the holidays, but gets fired when he became too happy while working.  He gives the gifts to his landlady and she in turn feels powerful in giving them to the destitute.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  "}{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Christmas Is a Sad Season for the Poor}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 "
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   The narrator's common wife Ethel is snared into an extramarital affair with Trenchard, who visits her at the park where her children play.  Trenchard demands the narrator giv
e Ethel a split-up, but he hurls a flower pot at him.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  "The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Season of Divorce}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 "
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523 [10]}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523   Mr. Pasturn betrays his wife by giving the key to their bomb shelter to his mistress Mrs. Flanagan, who takes another lover.  Mr. Pasturn goes to jail in regret that hi
s plan for the end of the world will not be carried out.
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 ANSWER:}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523  "The }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Brigadier and the Golf Widow}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 "
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Your Choice 1/1
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par Among actors with cameos in this film are Marina Sirtis playing a Persian matriarch and Tony Danza, who plays an actor that suggests that a
 black character's dialogue should be dumbed down.  Other minor characters include the predictably named health care worker Shaniqua Johnson, Peter Waters, the apple of his mother's eye and devotee of St. Christopher, and Maria, a Hispanic servant and bes
t
 friend to an uptight white woman.  In a scene that ties into the opening of the film, Tommy Hanson shoots Peter when he mistakes Peter's pulling out a St. Christopher figurine to be him pulling out a gun.  The film's most emotional scene involves a traff
ic stop involving the Thayers, an affluent Hollywood black couple, by racist cop Jack Ryan, who later saves Mrs. Thayer's life.  FTP name this drama featuring Terrence Howard, Don Cheadle, and Matt Dillon.
\par ANSWER: }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Crash
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par CM
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx2610\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Name these baseball players still playing effectively well into their forties.  FTPE.
\par [10]  Despite posting a career best in ERA, he was not offered arbitration by his current team leading to wide speculation that this player may sign with the Rangers, Red Sox, or Yankees, or retire at 43.
\par ANSWER: (William) Roger }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Clemens}{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par [10]  This former Braves first baseman has recently signed a multi-year contract that has him locked up until age 49, and plans to play past his fiftieth birthday.
\par ANSWER: Julio (Cesar Robles) }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Franco}{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 [10] This player\rquote s only All-Star appearance came in 2003, at age 40, when he won 21 games.  Now 43, he is still an effective starter, earning a 13-7 record with a 4.28 ERA with the hapless Mariners.
\par ANSWER: Jamie }{\b\fs20\ul\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 Moyer}{\b\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\insrsid2643523\charrsid2643523 
\par }}