{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}{\f172\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f173\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f175\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f176\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f177\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f178\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f179\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f180\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f181\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f183\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f184\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f185\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f186\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f187\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs22\expndtw-2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f169\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f169\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s19\ql \fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{\s21\ql \fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin2160\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\ql \fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin2880\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{\s23\ql \fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin3600\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{\s25\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{
\s28\ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*
\cs32 \additive _Equation Caption;}{\s33\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\expndtw-2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext33 Body Text;}}{\info{\title 1995 ACF Regionals}
{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min46}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy28\hr17\min58}{\version10}{\edmins18}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3509}{\nofchars20005}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws24567}{\vern8247}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1111\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprslnsp\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984
\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl-20\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \linex0\headery1008\footery432\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 1995 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech II
\par }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 1. Known for his avant\_
garde themes, much of his later work such as the plays Breath, and Company tried to eliminate the physical world altogether, and with the notable exceptions of his novel Watt and the plays, Happy Days and Krapp's Last Tape, all of his works were written i
n French. FTP, identify this Irish\_born French dramatist who was awarded the 1969 Nobel Prize in Literature best known for the plays, Endgame and Waiting for Godot. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Samuel }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Beckett}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Originally an admirer of FDR, he turned against him in his sermons which began for the Shrine of the Little Flower church in Michigan before mutating into a series of anti\_
Semitic extremist tirades that expressed sympathy for European fascists. FTP, identify this Roman Catholic priest and radio broadcaster who was forced off the air by the Church in 1942. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Father Charles }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Coughlin}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. In his early work, he devised a much improved electromagnet by insulating the wire rather than the core, invented one of the first electric motors, and found sunspots to be cooler
 than the surrounding photosphere. FTP, identify this American who discovered induction and self\_induction although Faraday published first, and for whom the SI unit of inductance is named. 
\par \tab Answer: Joseph }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Henry}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 4. The book ends with the foretelling of t
he coming of the prophet Elijah before the "great and dreadful day of the lord," and it connects the economic hardships of the times with the moral laxness of the people having been written after the period of the rededication of the temple in Jerusalem. 
FTP, identify this book of the Bible, the last of the Old Testament. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Malachi}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 5. Raised in the city of Aix\_en\_Provence with his close friend, Paul Cezanne, he went to Paris at the age of eighteen publishing his first novel, The Confession of Claude in 1865 before embarking on his twenty\_
two year, twenty novel naturalistic experiment, Les Rougon\_Macquart. FTP, identify this French author perhaps best known for his famous defense of Captain Dreyfus, J'Accuse. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Emile }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Zola}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 6. The son of Mathilda, he restored order to strife\_torn England, reformed its laws, established the supremacy of the royal courts, and defined church\_
state relations with the Constitutions of Clarendon. FTP, identify this king of England, the founder of the Plantagenet line, best known for his dispute which led to the death of Thomas a Becket. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Henry II}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 7. The esophagus, aorta, and inferior vena cava passes through it with the first using a small opening through which part of the stomach may slide into the chest ca
using a hiatus hernia, and it is involved to a varying degree in quiet and heavy breathing. FTP, identify this thin muscular and fibrous structure dividing the contents of the chest from the abdomen. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 diaphragm}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 8. Believed to be an illegitimate s
on of Talleyrand, his output was enormous as executors found more than 9000 paintings, pastels, and drawings in his studio. FTP, identify this French painter, often considered to be the greatest of the Romantics whose best known works include The Bark of 
Dante, The Massacre at Chios and Liberty Leading the People. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Eugene }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Delacroix}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 9. Acting in behalf of the Byzantine emperor, Zeno, he led his Gothic army in an invasion of Italy, and by 493, he had captured Ravenna and killed Odoacer, the German c
hieftain who had overthrown the last Roman Emperor in 476. FTP, identify this Ostrogoth who subsequently declared himself king of Italy. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Theodoric the }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Great}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 10. Written before 1941
 when the author presented it to his third wife, Carlotta, it was published posthumously and tells of the harrowing domestic tragedy of the four members of the Tyrone family. FTP, identify this play, the winner of the 1957 Pulitzer Prize in drama, written
 by Eugene O'Neill. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Long Day's Journey Into Night}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 11. One of the original constellations classified by Ptolemy, it is divided by the equator into two equal portions and is located between Canis Major and Taurus containing the Horsehead nebula as 
well as the stars Saiph and Bellatrix. FTP, identify this constellation whose two brightest stars are Betelgeuse and Rigel that is often nicknamed the Hunter. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Orion}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 12. Initiation eventually became open to all Greek citizens, and the ritual itse
lf was divided into two parts: the Lesser honoring the return of Persephone in February and the Greater honoring Demeter involving a mass procession from Athens where a secret ritual, still unknown today, was held. FTP, identify this secret religious ritu
al of ancient Greece. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Eleusinian Mysteries}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 13. Before joining the U.S. Senate in 1821, he established the "Albany Regency," a political organization to run the state in his absence, and in 1828, he ran for and won the post of governor for the sta
te so that he could ensure that Jackson would receive that state's electoral vote. FTP, identify this man who in 1836 was elected as President of the U.S. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Martin }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Van Buren}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 14. The first editor of The Atlantic Monthly, after travel abroad, he suc
ceeded Longfellow to the chair of modern languages at Harvard, and made a huge splash in the literary world in 1848 when he published all three of his best known works. FTP, identify this American poet, who in this year, published The Vision of Sir Launfa
l, A Fable for Critics, and the first series of his Biglow Papers. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: James Russell }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lowell}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 15. Using the compound, 2,4\_dinitrofluorobenzene, a reagent which was subsequently named for him, he was able to ascertain the exact sequence of insulin for w
hich he received the 1958 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. FTP, identify this man who became one of two men to win Nobel Prizes in the same field in 1980 for his work in sequencing nucleic acids. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Frederick }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sanger}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 16. During the 1957 filming of Raintree Country, he was involved in a near fatal car accident which disfigured his face, leaving it half\_
 paralyzed and him in almost continual pain; however, he made a comeback receiving a fourth Oscar nomination in 1961 for his role in Judgement at Nuremburg. F
TP, identify this brooding American actor perhaps best known for his Oscar nominated roles in A Place in the Sun and From Here to Eternity. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Montgomery }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Clift}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 17. As a result of it, a 12 nation cooperative agreement on Antarctica was signed due to
 new discoveries there, and during this time, important discoveries about the ocean floor were made, the Van Allen radiation belt was discovered, and the USSR launched its first satellite. FTP, identify this 18 month period from July 1957 to December 1958
 devoted to the cooperative study of the earth. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 International Geophysical Year}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 18. First performed as Almaviva in 1816, it tells of the attempts of Count Almaviva, disguised as Lindoro, to gain entry to the house of his love, Rosina, who is kept 
under lock and key by her guardian, Bartolo. FTP, identify this opera in which the two lovers are finally reunited at the end through the aid of the title character, Figaro. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Barber of Seville}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 19. The only major river in t
he world to cross the equator twice on its journey to the Atlantic Ocean, its basin lies astride the equator meaning that one section of the basin is always receiving water and giving it a volume that is second in the world to the Amazon. FTP, identify th
is second longest African river, the only African river with an estuary. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Congo}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  River
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 20. Exemplifying in modern terms the typical disintegration of German romantic characters, it tells of the inability of the title character to be a part of the w
orld resulting in his own loneliness and desolation. FTP, identify this 1927 novel concerning the trials and tribulations of Harry Haller written by Herman Hesse. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Steppenwolf}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 21. She followed the massive success of her first and best known play 
with the 1964 work, The Sign in Sydney Brustein's Window'; however, she died one year later of cancer and her only other work was a posthumous collection of writings entitled To Be Young, Gifted, and Black. FTP, identify this playwright, who became the yo
ungest American awarded best play by the New York Drama Critics Circle for A Raisin in the Sun. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Lorraine }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hansberry}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 22. Born in Konigsberg, the starting point of his "critical" philosophy was the work of David Hume which awakened him from his "dog
matic slumber" and led him to make his "Copernican revolution in philosophy." FTP, identify this German philosopher best known for his Critique of Judgement and Critique of Pure Reason. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Immanuel }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Kant}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 23. Causing a characteristic mask\_like facial appearance, shuffling gait, muscular rigidity, and tremor at rest, it is a disorder of the basal ganglia of the brain and may be substantially helped by drugs such as L\_
dopa that affect impulse transmissions of nerve cells. FTP, identify this disease that is common among the elderly. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Parkinson's}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  disease
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par \page }{\b\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 1995 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech II
\par }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 1. Answer the following questions on the first telegraph message for 10 points each.
\par 1. In what year did Samuel F. B. Morse send the first telegraph message, from Washington, D.C. to Baltimore, Maryland? 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 1844}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  (May 24) 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
2. This man received the message, "What hath God wrought?", on that day. He helped Morse erect the telegraph lines and he would later establish Western Union. He took his money and established an Ithaca, N.Y. university named for him. 
\par \tab Answer: Ezra }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Cornell}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The message, "What hath God wrought?", comes from what book of the Bible?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Numbers}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  (23:23)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 2. Identify the following plays of Robert Sherwood to win the Pulitzer Prize in drama for ten points each. 
\par 1. He won the 1941 Pulitzer Prize for this drama about a Finnish pacifist who decides to fight against the Nazis and sacrifices his life. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 There Shall Be No Night }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. There Shall Be No Night reprised the theme of pacifism which was central to this 1936 winner, a dramatic setting of a plea for world peace. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Idiot's Delight }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. This 1938 winner tells the story of the early life and preparation of lifework of the sixteenth president of the United States. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Abe Lincoln in Illinois}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 3. Put the following geographical places in the order asked for fifteen points each. 
\par 1. You are currently at Yalta, Ukraine, in the Black Sea and wan
t to get to the Mediterranean Sea. You have to go through: the Sea of Marmara, the Bosporus, the Dardanelles, and the Aegean Sea. Place these four places in the order you would travel in order to get to the Mediterranean. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Bosporus, Sea of Marmara, Dardanelles, Aegean}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Sea 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
2. You are stationed in St. Petersburg, Russia, and wish to get to the North Sea. You have to go through: Skagerrak, the Baltic Sea, the Kattegat, and the Gulf of Finland. Place these four places in the order you would travel in 
order to get to the North Sea. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Gulf of Finland, Baltic Sea, Kattegat, Skagerrak}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 4. Identify the following Bible characters who are thought of by most scholars to have been black for the stated number of points.
\par 1. This son of Noah, accoridng to traditional Christian thought, is believed to have had skin similar to Ethiopians since Genesis 10:6 states that Cush, father of the Nubians, was one of his sons. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ham }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Son of Cush and grandson of Ham, Genesis 10:9 tells us he was the world's 
first dictator as he "made himself a mighty hunter in opposition to God". He established Babylon as a world power before the confusion of the language. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Nimrod }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. In one of the first instances of recorded interracial marriage, Moses married this 
woman. The daugher of Reuel, she was described as Cushite in the Bible as well. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Zipporah}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 5. Identify the following structures associated with fungi for ten points each. 
\par 1. All fungi are built with a main thallus composed of these cellular filaments. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 hyphae }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Hyphae can become specialized in certain species to form these structures which anchor the fungus like roots anchor a plant. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 rhizoids }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. A filamentous network of hyphae come together to form this massive growth pattern. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 mycelium}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 6. Identify the following symphonies from a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. This symphony, Haydn's 94th, was composed in 1794 and received its nickname from the sudden loud chord in the slow movement. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Surprise}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Symphony 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Composed to commemorate Napoleon, Beethoven changed the nickname of this, his third symphony, after discovering he had taken the title of emperor. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Eroica }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Subtitled Episodes in the life of an Artist, this symphony was written because of Berlioz's despairing love for the actress, Harriet Smithson. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Symphonie Fantastique}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 7. Identify the famous military man from a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. He graduated from the USMA in 1886 and served as a cavalry officer against the Indians in South Dakota before receiving a law degree from the U. of Nebraska in 1893. 
\par 2. After teaching tactics at the USMA and a stint in the Spanish\_American War (which earned him a nickname), he served a tour in the Phillipines and was triple\_promoted to brigadier general by T. Roosevelt in 1906. 
\par 3. He commanded the Mexican border operations in 1916 before being chosen to lead U.S. troops "over there" into World War I. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: John }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Pershing}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 8. Answer the following questions about the myth of Iphigenia for ten points each. 
\par 1. Iphigenia was sacrificed by this man, her father, in order to gain favorable winds for their ships to journey to Troy. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Agamemnon }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. For five points each, identify the name of the port where Iphigenia w
as sacrificed and the name of the island she was taken after she was swept away from the pyre. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Aulis and Tauris }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Iphigenia was saved by this Greek goddess who sent a stag to bring her to the island of Tauris to be a priestess for her. Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Artemis}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 9. Identify the following German writers from a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. Wallenstein, Mary Stuart, and The Maid of Orleans are among the Sturm und Drang plays of this famed German playwright. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Friedrich von }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Schiller }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. His novel, The Sorrows of Young Werther, caused a wave of suiceds when it was first published but he is better known for such plays as Egmont and Faust. 

\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Johann Wolfgang von }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Goethe }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. His Book of Songs which includes his famous ballad about Lorelei is considered to be one of the greatest expressions of German romantic poetry. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Heinrich }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Heine}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 10. Identify the following about the central dogma of molecular biology or biochemistry for ten points each. 
\par 1. In this process, DNA is read by an RNA polymerase molecule that generates the corresponding piece of RNA. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 transcription }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. In this process, a ribosome reads an RNA strand in order to identify the correct sequence of amino acids that will compose a protein. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 translation }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. This enzyme is responsible for the construction of a double stranded molecule of DNA from a single strand of RNA and is most notably utilized by HIV. 

\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 reverse transcriptase}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 11. Identify the following influential novels written in the Spanish language for ten points each. 
\par 1. The trials and tribulations of the Buendia family are the subject of this magic realism masterpiece by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 One Hundred Years of Solitude }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. It was mainly for this family epic that Camilo Jose Cela was awarded the 1989 Nobel Prize in Literature. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Family of Pascal Duarte }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The first part of this novel written in 1605 while the author was in prison is considered to be one of the finest models of the form in world literature. 

\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Don Quixote}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 12. Identify the following Mannerist painters from a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. As a painter, he was one of the most prolific artists of the period; however, today, he is best known for his writings such as the Lives of the Architects and Lives of the Painters. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Giorgio }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Vasari }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Born Girolamo Francesco Mazzola, he is considered to be one of the greatest of the mannerists, and he is best known for his paintings, Self\_
Portrait in a Convex Mirror and Madonna of the Long Neck. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Parmigianino }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. One of the few true mannerists outside of Italy, he is best known for the paintings El Espolio and The Burial of Count Orgaz.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 El Greco}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 13. Identify the following associated with the French Revolution for ten points each. 
\par 1. Instituted on September 5, 1793, this period ended with the overthrow of Robespierre as a part of the Thermidorean reaction. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Reign of Terror }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Set up by the National Convention, this committee oversaw the reign of terror as it was headed by Robespierre. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Committee of Public Safety }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The executive body of the French first republic from 1795\_99, it consisted of five directors nominated by the Counc
il of Five Hundred and elected by the Council of Ancients. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Directory}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 14. Identify the following stars from a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. Also called Canicula, this white main\_sequenc is the brightest\_ appearing star in the heavens, its companion was the first white dwarf to be discovered. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sirius }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. A red dwarf star in the constellation Ophiucus, it was discovered by the American astronomer whose name it bears. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Barnard's}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Star}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The fifth brightest star in the heavens, it is a blue\_white star of the first magnitude in the Lyra constellation. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Vega}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 15. Identify the following about the works of Rudyard Kipling for ten points each. 
\par 1. One of his Barrack Room Ballads, it was written in praise of a Hindu water\_carrier for a British Indian regiment. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Gunga Din }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. This 1901 novel of Indian life tells of an Irish orphan raised as an Indian in Lahore. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Kim }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. How the Leopard Got His Spots and Why an Elephant Has A Trunk are among the short stories in this collection. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Just\_So Stories}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 16. Given a description of each, identify the following doctrines the U.S. has used in its foreign policy history for 10 points each.
\par 1. Enunciated on Dec. 2, 1823, it has been used as justification as recently as the 1983 U.S. invasion of Grenada. It stated that the United States would not allow any European power to colonize any part of the Western Hemisphere. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Monroe}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Doctrine 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
2. This doctrine was accepted by the League of Nations in 1932. Announced on Jan. 7, 1932 by the U.S. secretary of state it is named for, it stated that the U.S. would not recognize any territorial claims made by any nation in China. It was mainly aimed 
at the Japanese. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Stimson}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Doctrine 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
3. This doctrine led the USSR to call the U.S. "warmongers" and to actively oppose the Marshall Plan. Detailed in a Mar. 12, 1947 speech to Congress, it pledged U.S. economic & military support to any European n
ation resisting Communism whether by overt means or by subversion. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Truman}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Doctrine
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 17. Identify the following multiple Oscar winners given a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. This paramour of Katherine Hepburn is the only person to win back to back Oscars for Best Actor when he did so for Captains Courageous and Boys Town. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Spencer }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Tracy }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. This man is the only actor to win back to back Oscars for Best Supporting Actor when he did so for Julia and All the President's Men. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Jason }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Robards }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. One of two women to win back to back Oscars for Best Actress when she did so for the films The Great Ziegfeld and The Good Earth. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Luise }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Rainer}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 18. Identify the following unrelated laws of physics for ten points each. 
\par 1. This law states that the electromotive force induced in a circuit is such as to oppose the flux change giving rise to it. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lenz's}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Law 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. His third law states that the square of the time taken by a planet to orbit the sun is proportional to the cube of its mean distance from the sun. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Johannes }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Kepler }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. This meteorological law states that if an observer in the northern hemisphere stands with his back to the wind, there is low pressure on the left. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Buys\_Ballot's}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Law
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 19. Identify the following writers identified with the South from a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. One of the best regional writers of her time, Barren Ground, Vein of Iron, and In This Our Life are all novels set in her native Virginia. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Ellen }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Glasgow }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
2. Wise Blood and The Violent Bear it Away are the only two novels of this Georgia born writer who is best known for short stories such as A Good Man is Hard to Find. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Flannery }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 O'Connor }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. A Worn Path, A Curtain of Green, and The Death of the Traveling Salesman are among the best known short stories of this author born in Mississippi. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Eudora }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Welty}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 20. Identify the following important battles involving the armies of Rome from a brief description for ten points each. 
\par 1. This 202 BC battle of the Second Punic War was a key victory for the forces under Scipio Africanus over the Carthaginian forces of Hannibal. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Zama }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Roman expansion east of the Rhine was halted at this 9 AD battle in which the Germans under Arminius annihilated the Roman forces under Varus. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Teutoburg}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  Forest 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Pompey fled to Egypt where he was murdered after this 48 BC battle in which his forces were defeated by Julius Caesar. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Pharsalus}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 21. Give the capitals of the following states for 10 points each.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-3456\li3456\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin3456\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 1. Tasmania in Australia \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hobart}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-4176\li4176\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin4176\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Lower Saxony in Germany \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hannover}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-3456\li3456\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin3456\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. North Dakota in the U.S. \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Bismarck}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 22. Given the two bodies of land separated by it, give the strait or passage that lies between the two for ten points each. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-4896\li4896\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin4896\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 1. Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula \tab Answer: Strait of Malacca 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-4176\li4176\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin4176\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. South America and Antarctica \tab Answer: Drake Passage 
\par 3. Cuba and Hispanola   \tab Answer: Windward Passage 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 23. Give the name of each of these groups of people according to the Bible for fifteen points each. 
\par 1. They all had six fingers & toes and may have inspired stories in Greek myth. The sons of fallen angels and human women, these mutant hybrids were noted 
in Genesis 6:4 for their strength & badness, called "the men of fame", before being all killed in the Great Deluge. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Nephilim }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Jesus, perhaps in a demonstration of his sense of humor, nicknamed the sons of Zebedee, brothers James and John, this
. The nickname/surname means "sons of thunder" and Jesus gave them the name because of their fiery, gung\_ho attitude when it game to preaching the Gospel. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Boanerges}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 24. In preparation for the ACF national tournament, I've been staring at this stupid world atlas for the longest time. Well, I'm gonna make you pay by answering these seemingly\_hard, but really not\_so\_hard questions on world geography. 
\par 1. This body of water lies entirely in Russia 75 miles from the Mongolian border. Eighth largest lake in the world and the deepest lake on earth, over the next 150 million years, it will become the world's fifth ocean. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Lake }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Baikal }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. This European mountain range is heavily popluated by Slavs & Magyars. An extension of the Alps, the range is s
emicircular in shape and runs from Slovakia into the Ukraine before terminating in Romania. It is said that Count Dracula lives in these mountains. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Carpathian Mountains }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. A major source of borax and saline deposits, it is also a major source of
 natural nitrates, copper, and other minerals. This desert in northern Chile is the world's driest region. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Atacama }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Desert}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 25. Identify the following massacres in the Indian Wars in U.S. history for fifteen points each. 
\par 1. This November 1864 massacre was an unprovoked surprise attack by the U.S. Army under Col. John Chivington in Colorado. Even though the Cheyenne had camped peacefully outside Ft, Lyon, 500 were slaughtered & mutilated. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sand Creek Massacre }{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. This November 1866 massac
re was led by Red Cloud on a party of 80 U.S. Army soldiers from Ft. Phil Keatney, Wyoming. It was named for the leader of the U.S. Army party and was the main reason the Bozeman Trail was abandoned. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f1\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Fetterman Massacre}{\f1\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }}