{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff5\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f217\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f218\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f220\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f221\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f222\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f223\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f224\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{
\s19\ql \fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin720\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{\s21\ql \fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin2160\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\ql \fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin2880\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{\s23\ql \fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin3600\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{\s25\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{
\s28\ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}{\s33\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext33 Body Text;}}{\info{\title 1995 ACF Regionals }{\author Jason Hong}
{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min45}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy28\hr18}{\version6}{\edmins1}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords3458}{\nofchars19715}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws24211}{\vern8247}}
\margl720\margr720\margt576\margb576 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1111\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprslnsp\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984
\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \linex0\headery1008\footery432\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs19\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20 1995 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Maryland I
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par 1. It had been begun in 1793 during a walking tour of southern England 
with the author's friend William Calvert; but it was not completed until June 1798 during a four-day ramble to the Wye River Valley. According to most accounts, the site to which the title refers was a ruin and would have been inhabited with unseemly begg
ars and hobos rather than "the outward forms of beauty." FTP name the final poem in the collection }{\f0\fs20\ul Lyrical Ballads}{\f0\fs20 , which contains the name of a site visited twice by William Wordsworth.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Lines Composed a Few Miles Above }{\f0\fs20\ul Tintern Abbey}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 2. Born in Ba
den, Germany in 1803, he emigrated to the United States 1834 to avoid being jailed for debt. Settling in California in 1839, he became a Mexican citizen and was granted a 50,000 acre tract in the Sacramento Valley. With Indian labor, he built a fortified 
town to protect his vast holdings, and it was there that James W. Miller made a history-making discovery in January of 1848. FTP, name this man whose fort was soon overrun by squatters seeking
\par gold. \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: John Augustus }{\f0\fs20\ul Sutter}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 3. Though Kurt Vonnegut theorized a ninth form, only eight crystal structures of this solid are known to exist. Most of them can only be found under conditions of extreme pressure. Interestingly, the density of the compound is greatest in its liquid state
. Chemically viewed as a covalent hydride, it is a good, though labile, ligand. FTP name this amphoteric polar molecule with an atomic mass of 18.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul water}{\f0\fs20  or H}{\f0\fs20\sub 2}{\f0\fs20 O or }{\f0\fs20\ul ice}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 4. This narrative begins with the town of Bethulia besieged 
by the Assyrian army of King Nebuchadnezzar. With the town about to surrender, the title heroine upbraids them for their lack of faith in God and sneaks into the Assyrian camp. Taken to the tent of the general Holofernes (hollow-fair-naze) because of her 
beauty, she beheads him while he sleeps, and the townspeople rout the leaderless Assyrians. FTP I have just described the plot of what book of the Apocrypha?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Judith}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par 5. Appointed junior emperor in 355, he was put in charge of Britain and Gaul. His 
troops rebelled against Constantius II in 360 and proclaimed him emperor. His official policy was of toleration of all religious beliefs, but his anti-Christian bent was obvious. FTP name this Roman emperor who tried to reinstate the worship of the pagan 
gods.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Julian the Apostate}{\f0\fs20  or }{\f0\fs20\ul Julian II}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 6. It was uninhabited when the first settlers arrived in 874, but within 60 years, the country had become fully settled. Strangely enough, it adopted Christianity as the state religion in 1000 by vote. Taken 
over by King Haakon IV of Norway in 1264, it suffered centuries of neglect at the hands of the Norwegiens and Danes. For 10 points, what is this north-Atlantic island nation whose parliament is the Althing. \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Iceland}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 7. Paul Berg of Stanford Uni
versity was the first to make it. The key to genetic engineering, it is created by splicing a gene from one type of cell into the genetic material of a cell of another organism. FQTP what name is given to the hybrid molecule formed by this operation?\tab 
\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Recombinant DNA}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
8. A child of theatrical parents, he was orphaned early and lived with his godfather until, in 1836, he married his thirteen year old cousin Virginia Clemm. He won a story contest with "MS Found in a Bottle" and began to write the po
etic drama "Politian". FTP name this American writer who introduced the word "tintinnabulation" to the English language and also wrote "Murders in the Rue Morgue". \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Edgar Allan Poe}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par 9. He worked as a designer of sets and costumes for court masque
s written by Ben Jonson, Thomas Heywood, and Sir William Davenant. But he is better known for his austere and elegant architectural work, notably the Banqueting House of Whitehall Palace in London and the Queen's House at Greenwich. FTP who is this "Engli
sh Palladio," whose work stood as a beacon of the classicist orthodoxy in England for 200 years.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Inigo Jones}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 10. Originating in northwest Mexico, possibly near Zacatecas or Jalisco, they invaded central Mexico, sacked and burned the great city of 
Teotihuacan (tay oh-tee-wha-khan) in 900 AD, established themselves as the dominant power in the region. For 10 points, identify this first truly great militaristic civilization of Meso-America whose capital at Tula was destroyed be invading Aztecs in the
 mid-12th century.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Toltec(s)}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 11. A woman by this name has been the object of poetic admiration by Robert Tofte, Lord Byron, and Friedrich von Schiller, although none of these celebrations are as well-known as the original. The original poet says t
hat he first saw her on April 6, 1327 and fell in love, and that her death, 21 years later, resulted in profound spiritual crisis for him. FTP name this women, the subject of the collection }{\f0\fs20\ul Canzoniere}{\f0\fs20  by Petrarch.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Laura}{\f0\fs20  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 12. This American diploma
t was a private secretary to Andrew Jackson and married the granddaughter of Thomas Jefferson. He is most famous for refusing President Polk's recall in November, 1847, and continuing his negotiations according to his original instructions. FTP name this 
American diplomat who disobeyed orders to negotiate the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Nicholas }{\f0\fs20\ul Trist}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 13. This man is a character in Shakespeare's }{\f0\fs20\ul A Midsummer Night's Dream}{\f0\fs20 , Chaucer's "The Knight's Tale," and Boccaccio's }{\f0\fs20\ul Il Teseida}{\f0\fs20 , as well as two novels by Mary Renault, }{\f0\fs20\ul The King Must Die}{
\f0\fs20  and }{\f0\fs20\ul The Bull from the Sea}{\f0\fs20 . Though this mythological figure had lesser roles in the expedition of the Argonauts and the hunt of the Calydonian Boar, he is probably better known as the slayer of Sinis, Sciron, and Pro
crustes. FTP name this legendary ruler of Athens and son of Aegeus who, with the aid of Ariadne, slew the Minotaur.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Theseus}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 14. Approximately 700 of them may be found in our galaxy; Polaris is one. Henrietta Leavitt discovered that their luminosi
ty varies periodically. This period-luminosity relation provides astronomers a standard candle to measure extragalactic distances. FTP name this class of variable stars whose moniker comes from the first observed object of this type.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: delta }{\f0\fs20\ul Cepheid}{\f0\fs20  or cepheid variables
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 15. The author of this work died before he could finish the third section, but his follower Reginald of Piperno completed it later according to his design. It applies the methodology of Aristotelian logic to problems of Christian doc
trine, systematizing and quoting from the works of both classical and early Christian thinkers. FTP name this philosophical treatise composed between 1265 and 1274 by St. Thomas Aquinas.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Summa Theologica}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 16. Its plot is a revamping of the 1936 film }{\f0\fs20\ul Dracula's Daughter}{\f0\fs20  and it is narrated with great cynicism by a dead man, Joe Gillis, who was once a struggling Hollywood 
\par writer. Actors in the film include Cecil B. DeMille, who plays himself, and Erich von Stroheim, who plays Max, the butler of the retired silent movie actress Norma Desmond. FTP name this classic Billy Wilder film, famous for 
\par its final shot of as Gloria Swanson descending a staircase towards the newsreel cameras.\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Sunset Boulevard}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 17. A former member of the Hitler Youth, he
 became the head of a major city's Gestapo Department in 1942. Personally responsible for the death of 4,000 persons and the deportation of 7,500 others, he was nonetheless recruited after the war by the U.S. for counterintelligence work and was eventuall
y spirited out of Germany to Bolivia. Tracked down, he was extradited to France in 1983 and sentenced to life in prison for crimes against humanity. FTP name this Nazi leader, known as the Butcher of Lyon.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Klaus Barbi}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par 18. The state of quantum mech
anics in the mid-1920's was summarized in a poem by Walter Huckel as "Erwin with his psi can do / Calculations quite a few. / But one thing has not been seen / Just what does psi really mean?" Schroedinger interpreted it as a particle density function, bu
t this man disagreed interpreting psi as the amplitude of a wave function whose square determines the wave intensity. FTP name the Gottingen professor whose statistical interpretation of the probability density earned him the 1954 Nobel Prize in Physics.

\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Max Born}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par 19. The interlude is a sermon to an invisible congregation. Much of the imagery is based on Frazer's }{\f0\fs20\ul The Golden Bough}{\f0\fs20 
. The villians are four tempters in Part One and four knights in Part Two. FTP identify the play by T.S. Eliot that deals with the assassination of the Archbishop of Canterbury
\par Thomas a Becket.\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Murder in the Cathedral}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 20. In spite of intrigues and attempts by the librettist's rival Giovanni Battista Casti to sabotage the dress rehearsal, opening night on the first 
of May 1786 was an unqualified success. Michael Kelly played the roles of both tenors Don Curzio and Don Basilio while Francesco Bussani also played two roles: the gardener Antonio and Dr. Bartolo. FTP identify the Mozart opera that begins with the title 
character measuring the size of his bedroom in anticipation of his wedding night.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\fs20\ul Marriage of Figaro}{\f0\fs20  or }{\f0\fs20\ul Le Nozze di Figaro}{\f0\fs20  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \page 21. Their code of behavior, the Ordnung, requires kneeling for prayer in worship, the use of a German dialect, and marr
iage within the church. It forbids wall-to-wall carpeting, air transportation, and filing a law suit, and entering the military. FTP name this religious sect whose members are often seen wearing driving horse-drawn buggies.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\fs20\ul Amish}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 22. This phe
nomenon is only exhibited by dielectrics lacking a center of symmetry. If pressure is applied on such a crystal, a potential difference arises across it. Conversely, if a voltage is applied to the crystal, it deforms. When placed in alternating current, i
t will expand and contract. FTP identify this phenomenon first observed in 1880.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Piezoelectricity}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 23. This Union general was once quoted as saying "The only good Indian is a dead Indian," but he is much better known for his Civil War experiences. 
In 1864, he was appointed the commander of cavalry of the Army of Potomac, and he later commanded the Union Army in the Shenandoah Valley. FTP name this Union general, who astride his horse Rienzi, defeated Jubal Early at the battle of Cedar Creek on Octo
ber 19, 1864. \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Philip Sheridan}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 24. He is a kind of detective of conscience that is closely related to the oblique narrators of Henry James. He describes and analyzes the various sources from which he has collected his information and comments, o
ften sardonically, on the significance of the events he narrates. FTP identify this man who tells }{\f0\fs20\ul Chance}{\f0\fs20 , }{\f0\fs20\ul Youth}{\f0\fs20 , }{\f0\fs20\ul Heart of Darkness}{\f0\fs20 , and }{\f0\fs20\ul Lord Jim}{\f0\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Marlow}{\f0\fs20  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 25. In his forties, he was strongly attracted to the works of Giorgio de Chirico. His painti
ngs are characterized by bizarre juxtapositions of objects, painted in a restrained, realistic style. The contrast of this style with his fantastic subjects contributes to the disconcerting quality of such works as }{\f0\fs20\ul The Human Condition}{
\f0\fs20  (1934). FTP identify this Belgian surrealist.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Rene Magritte}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \page }{\b\f0\fs20 1995 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Maryland I
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par 1. Given the mathematical relation for pi, name the discoverer for 15 points each.
\par 1. In 1736 he discovered that the sum from one to infinity of one over n squared equals pi squared over 6. He went blind 30 years later.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Leonhard }{\f0\fs20\ul Euler}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
2. He discovered that pi over 4 is one minus one-third plus one-fifth minus one-seventh, etc. He introduced flexible and suggestive notations like dy/dx to the jargon of mathematics.\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Gottfried Wilhelm von }{\f0\fs20\ul Leibniz }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 2. Well, I guess it wouldn't be a true Maryland packet without a Geography from Hell question, so here we go. For 10 points each, name these geographic features that are obvious on a map, but whose names are not very familiar.
\par 1. Name this lake, bordered by Burundi, Zaire, Zambia and Tanzania, is the Africa's second largest and the world's second deepest.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Lake }{\f0\fs20\ul Tanganyika}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. This body of water is completely surrounded by Turkey, and connects the Bosporus and Dardanelles.\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Sea Of }{\f0\fs20\ul Marmara}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. This strait separating Denmark and Norway connects the North
\par Sea and the Baltic Sea. \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Skagerrak}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 3. Identify these battles captured in Western art for 10 points each.
\par 1. A late canvas by Jacques-Louis David shows Leonidas slumped over his spear. FTP what 480 BC battle is the subject, in which a small force of Spartans made a heroic but unsuccessful stand against the vastly superior Persian army.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f0\fs20\ul Thermopylae }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. Alexander's victory over Darius is the subject of what 1529 painting by Albrecht Altdorfer?\tab \tab  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f0\fs20\ul Issus}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
3. In 1503, the city of Florence commissioned Leonardo to do a mural for the Palazzo Vecchio. Though never completed, what battle did he choose as his subject, in which the Florentine forces defeated the Milanese army?
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Battle of }{\f0\fs20\ul Anghiari}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 4. Now comes a few questions about those "Fabulous Fifties" - the 1850's. 
\par Answer the following questions for the stated number of points. 5: The name of the fanatical abolitionist who migrated to Kansas in 1855 and massacred 5 pro-slavery settlers at Pottawatomie, Kansas.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab \tab Answer: John }{\f0\fs20\ul Brown }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 10: Term applied to the guns covertly shipped to anti-slavery forces during the conflict in the Kansas territory. \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Beecher's Bibles }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 15: Name of the South Carolina Representative who beat Senator Charles Sumner senseless with a walking cane in 1856. \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Preston }{\f0\fs20\ul Brooks}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 5. Name these 18th century British actors for 15 points each.
\par 1. After failing in the wine business with his brother, he turned to acting, and his quick success enabled him to buy part of the patent for Drury Lane theater. Name this man who did much to revive Shakespeare's popularity and also wrote such farces as }{
\f0\fs20\ul The Clandestine Marriage}{\f0\fs20 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul David GARRICK}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
b. This Irish actress was the best of the early 18th century, starring opposite David Garrick on occasion. She is the title character in a novel by Charles Reade. \tab 
\par \tab Answer: Margaret (Peg) WOFFINGTON
\par 
\par 6. Identify these episodes of Star Trek on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10: The only episode penned by science fiction legend Harlan Ellison.
\par 5: Kirk and Spock chase McCoy back through time to make sure the Nazis lose World War II.\tab \tab 
\par \tab Answer: The }{\f0\fs20\ul City On The Edge Of Forever }{\f0\fs20 
\par 2. 10: The only Next Generation episode to win the prestigious Hugo award. 
\par 5: Picard lives an alternate life in the span of minutes where he witnesses the dying gasp of an alien civilization.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\f0\fs20\ul Inner Light }{\f0\fs20 
\par 3. 10: The original series episode that spawned Deep Space 9's "Crossover". 
\par 5: The episode featured Kirk convincing an alternate Spock that logic dictates peace.\tab \tab 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Mirror, Mirror
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par 7. Identify the following creators of the Don Juan legend for 10 points each.
\par 1. Name the 17th century French wit who created the character of Don Juan's wife Donna Elvira in his play Dom Juan ou Le Festin de Pierre. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Moliere}{\f0\fs20  or Jean Baptiste Poquelin
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. Now, name the librettist of the 1787 opera Don Giovanni, Mozart's contribution to the legend. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Lorenzo }{\f0\fs20\ul Da Ponte}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. What German wrote the 1888 tone poem Don Juan? 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Richard Strauss}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 8. Give the name of these diseases on a 15-10-5 basis.
\par 15: It is caused by the spirochete Treponerna pallidum.
\par 10: The secondary form starts weeks or months after infection and involves fever, malaise, and a characteristic rash. The tertiary form is largely a disease of the circulatory and nervous systems.
\par 5: The primary form is a painless genital ulcer or a highly infective genital lesion.\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Syphilis }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 15: In rare cases it can be caused by amebiasis and certain drugs. Two forms of the disease have vaccines. In recent years, a third form has been detected. 

\par 10: The infectious form is epidemic and is transmitted by feces. The serum form is transmitted by blood. 
\par 5: It is an inflammation of the liver caused by viral infection.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Hepatitis}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 9. Identify the following films of Japanese director Akira Kurosawa FTP each.
\par 1. Kurosawa's first international succe
ss, this film tells the story of three strangers who take refuge from a rainstorm and attempt to recount irreconcilable versions of the murder of a samurai lord, shown in flashbacks. It has become a generic term for inherent subjectivity in point of view.

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Roshomon}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. In this adaptation of Macbeth, the warrior Taketoke Washizu murders his warlord, at the behest of his wife and a mysterious hag.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Throne Of Blood}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. In 1985, Kurosawa made his 27th film, which, at a cost of $11 million, was the
 most expensive Japanese film ever made. Name this tale of family conflict in 16th century feudal Japan, an adaptation of King Lear.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Ran}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 10. Identify the spouses of these historical or literary figures FTP each. If you need additional clues, you will receive 5 points.
\par 1. 10: The husband is Russian poet Sergei Yesenin
\par 5: She was known for her Greek tunic, long scarves, and bare feet, symbolizing revolt against traditional "school" steps in ballet, but she may be better known for her death by strangulation, when her scarf caught in the wheel of her automobile.\tab 

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Isadora }{\f0\fs20\ul Duncan }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. 10: The husband is American author Erskine Caldwell 
\par 5: As staff photographer for Fortune, Time, and Life, she covered WW II and the Korean War, and is also known for photographic studies of industry and social conditions during the Great Depression. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Margaret }{\f0\fs20\ul Bourke-White }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 10: The wife is English writer Mary Wollstonecraft 
\par 5: This political theorist detailed his belief in the perfectibility of man in his Enquiry Concerning Political Justice and a novel, Caleb Williams. He is the father of author Mary Shelley. \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: William }{\f0\fs20\ul Godwin}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 11. Since we just had a bonus on famous heterosexual relationships, how about a bonus on famous homosexual relationships. I'll give you one partner, and you name the more famous half of the relationship FTP each.
\par 1. Arthur Rimbaud
\par \tab Answer: Paul }{\f0\fs20\ul Verlaine}{\f0\fs20 
\par 2. Lord Alfred Douglas\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Oscar }{\f0\fs20\ul Wilde}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. Alice B.Toklas, in an admittedly ambiguous relationship\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Gertrude }{\f0\fs20\ul Stein}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 12. It's time for another game of tangled titles. Put these clues together FTP each.
\par a. An opera by Bela Bartok and a gothic novel by Horace Walpole.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Duke Blubeard's Castle Of Otranto}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 b. An Aaron Copland work that sounds like the Deep Space 9 theme and a play by George Bernard Shaw about the Don Juan legend.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Fanfare For The Common Man And Superman }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 c. The Czech national musical epic by Bedrich Smetana and a novel by Evelyn Waugh.\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul The Bartered Brideshead Revisited}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 13. Give a translation of the following Latin phrases which appear in Western history FTP each. [Moderator: be lenient in accepting translations]
\par a. "Veni, vidi, vici"--spoken by Julius Caesar as he announced his overthrow of Pharnaces, king of Pontus\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul I Came, I Saw, I Conquered}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 b. "In hoc signo vinces"--words appearing on a cross to Constantine at the battle of Milvian Bridge\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul By This Sign You Will Conquer}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 c. "Dulce et decorum est"--an ironic phrase ascribed to Horace, later used in a poem by Wilfred Owen to describe World War I
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul It Is Sweet And Becoming to die for one's country}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 14. Name the physics thing FTP each.
\par a. The radiation emitted by the motion of particles travelling faster than the speed of light in that medium.\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Cherenkov}{\f0\fs20  Radiation
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
b. Charged particles travelling along a strip of metal perpendicular to a magnetic field are deflected in a direction mutually perpendicular to both the current and the applied field.\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Hall}{\f0\fs20  Effect
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 c. The wavelength of X-rays change after they are scattered from electrons.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Compton}{\f0\fs20  Effect 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 15. Sometimes authors become so attached to characters, they repeatedly use them in other novels. Identify these recurring chacters in American literature.
\par a. The son of Oliver and Eliza, he is the central character in Thomas Wolfe's autobiographical novels Look Homeward, Angel and Of Time and the River. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Eugene }{\f0\fs20\ul Gant}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 b. He is the leading character in William Faulkner's The Unvanquished, as 
well as other novels and stories. Another aptly titled novel published in 1929 tells of his descendents. \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Colonel John }{\f0\fs20\ul Sartoris }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 c. Said to be a representation of the author Kurt Vonnegut himself, this hack writer appears notably in Slaughterhous
e Five, Breakfast of Champions, Slapstick, and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Kilgore }{\f0\fs20\ul Trout}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 16. What's the deal with Italian opera and gangster movies? Identify these Italian operas from their movie-related clue for fifteen points. If you need their composers, you will receive five.
\par 15: This opera's most famous aria "Vesti la giubba" can be heard in The Untouchables. 
\par 5: Ruggiero Leoncavallo\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Pagliacci}{\f0\fs20  or }{\f0\fs20\ul I Pagliacci}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 15: Sometimes performed with Pagliacci, the lilting strains of this opera
's "Intermezzo" can be heard in Raging Bull, while a performance of the opera takes place in The Godfather, Part III.
\par 5: Pietro Mascagni\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Cavalleria Rusticana }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 17. Answer the following questions about World's Fairs and other international expositions, FTP each.
\par a. This fair, held in Buffalo, NY, in 1901 is unfortunately most famous as the site of President McKinley's assassination by Leon Czolgosz.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Pan-American}{\f0\fs20  Exposition
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 b. This fair, held in Chicago in 1893, was one of the country's m
ost successful. It featured George Ferris's first wheel, Buffalo Bill's Wilde West Show, and the exotic dancer Little Egypt. It commemorated an important 400th anniversary. \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: World's }{\f0\fs20\ul Columbian}{\f0\fs20  Exposition
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 c. For a final 10 points, what Spanish city hosted the 1992 World's Fair, a celebration of the 500th anniversary of Columbus's "discovery" of the Americas. \tab 
\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Seville}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 18. How well do you know books from their characters. FTP I'll give you some minor characters and you give me the work. FFP I'll give you the major characters.
\par 10: Lucy Westenra, Quincey Morris, Dr. John Seward
\par 5: Jonathan Harker, Mina Harker, Dr, Van Helsing
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Dracula}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 10: Pablo, Agustin, Rafael, El Sordo 
\par 5: Robert Jordan, Maria, Pilar
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul For Whom The Bell Tolls}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 10: Mr. Jaggers, Mr. Wemmick, Herbert Pocket
\par 5: Estella, Magwitch, Pip\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Great }{\f0\fs20\ul Expectations}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 19. Identify these mythological figures associated with the myth of Bellerophon FTP each and a five point bonus for all correct.
\par 1. To what king of Lycia did Proteus send Bellerophon, carrying the message "Pray remove the bearer from this world"?\tab \tab \tab  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Iobates}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. What creature did Iobates order Bellerophon to slay?
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Chimaera}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. Who was the father of the Chimaera?\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Typhon }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 20. Given a chemical formula, name the compound FTP each.
\par a. C}{\f0\fs20\sub 8}{\f0\fs20 H}{\f0\fs20\sub 10}{\f0\fs20 N}{\f0\fs20\sub 4}{\f0\fs20 O}{\f0\fs20\sub 2}{\f0\fs20 , an alkaloid\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Caffeine}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 b. CHCl}{\f0\fs20\sub 3}{\f0\fs20 , an early anesthetic\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Chloroform}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 C. C}{\f0\fs20\sub 27}{\f0\fs20 H}{\f0\fs20\sub 46}{\f0\fs20 O, a precursor of bile salts and adrenal/sex hormones
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Cholesterol }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 21. Name the people involved in chaos science for the stated number of points.
\par 5: He popularized the field of chaos science with his book Chaos. He also wrote a biography about Richard Feynman.\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: James }{\f0\fs20\ul Gleick }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 10: Based on the similar Julia Set, a set that bears his name is basis of fractal geometry.\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: Benoit }{\f0\fs20\ul Mandelbrot }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 15: He coined the word "chaos" to describe the nascent field and introduced the pioneer research of Lorentz and Poincare to his mathematical colleagues.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: James }{\f0\fs20\ul Yorke}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 21. 30-20-10 Name the year from events.
\par 30: Knute Rockne becomes head football coach at Notre Dame; Willa Cather publishes My Antonia
\par 20: the Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats & Slovenes is proclaimed; Eugene V. Debs is sentenced to 10 years in jail for violating the Espionage and Sedition law
\par 10: Czar Nicholas II of Russia executed; Allies and Germany sign an armistice on November 11\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul 1918}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }}