{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}
{\f217\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f218\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f220\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f221\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f222\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f223\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f224\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{
\s19\ql \fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{\s21\ql \fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin2160\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\ql \fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin2880\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{\s23\ql \fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin3600\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{\s25\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{
\s28\ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*
\cs32 \additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1995 ACF Regionals}{\author Jason Hong}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min45}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy28\hr18\min41}{\version9}{\edmins17}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2608}{\nofchars14871}
{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws18262}{\vern8247}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1111\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprslnsp\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \linex0\headery1008\footery432\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f169\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 1995 ACF Regionals 
\par Questions by University of Memphis and Western Michigan 
\par }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 1. It was exposed by Professor Oakley of the British Museum in the 1950's. Using fluorine dating, he discovered that the jaw of this supposed hominid was not the same age as the
 rest of the skull. For ten points, name this hoax which was pieced together from human and orangutan remains.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Piltdown}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  Man 
\par 
\par 2. Antidiuretic hormone, prolactin, lutenizing hormone, follicle\_stimulating hormone, and growth hormone are all released by, for ten points, what small structure at the base of the hypothalamus?  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 pituitary}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  gland or hypophysis 
\par  
\par 3. The Portugese reached there in the 1500s. It contains the Malay states of Sarawak and Sabah, the country of Brunei, and the Indonesian Dyahs. FTP is this Pacific island of "wild men" shared by three nations? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Borneo}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 4. It was where Jesus prayed, was visited by an angel, and betrayed by Judas and arrested. It was also where his disciples took a few naps. For ten points, name this famous garden on the Mount of Olives, east of Jerusalem.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Gethsemane}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 5. This Grand Vizier of the Pharoah Djoser so impressed the Egyptians that he would replace Nefertum as the God of Medicine. The first architect whose name is known to history, his masterpiece is the so\_
called "Step" Pyramid at Seqqurah. He shares his name with a character played by Boris Karloff in the film The Mummy. FTP name this Egyptian doctor and architect. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Im\_Ho\_Tep }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 6. You take a buret and clamp it to a ring stand . Then you put your Erlenmeyer flask full of indicator underneath it. Once  enough of the substance in the buret has dripped into the flask  to change the color of the indicator, you've reache
d the end  point. For ten points, what is the classic and exceptionally boring technique I've just described? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Titration }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 7. Viewed as a minor lunatic fringe group until World War I, they advocated "One Big Union, One Big Strike." Consisting of 
lumberjacks, cowboys, and other such workers, they were known to throw dynamite at strike breakers. For ten points, name this organization, led by Bill Haywood which is best known by its nickname the "Wobblies." 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Industrial Workers of the World or IWW}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 8. He made the distinction between the photographer as an artist with an inspired technique, and the photographer as an amateur. He founded the gallery "291" in New York and was a founding member of the Photo\_Secession movement. For 10 points, name 
this photographre of The Steerage and husband of Georgia O'Keefe. 
\par \tab Answer: Alfred }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Stieglitz }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 9. Running at a north latitude of 39 degrees 43' 19.11'', the greater part of it was surveyed from 1763 to 1767 by two English astronomers. For ten points name 
this boundary between Pennsylvania and Maryland which often signifys the division between North and South. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mason\_Dixon}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  line 
\par  
\par 10. He was born in Germany in 1877. The duality of nature is a recurrent theme in his works. Some of his minor works include Gertrude, Rosshalde, Klingsor's Last Summer, and The Journey to the End. For 10 points, identify this German\_
Swiss author of Narcissus and Goldmund, Magister Ludi, and Siddhardtha? 
\par  \tab Answer: Hermann }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hesse }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par   
\par 11. In 1788 he was made Joseph's Hafkapellmeister, a position he held for 36 years while writing other operas, such as his best\_known work, Tarare, and forming friendships with Franz Joseph Haydn and Beethoven. He was a main character in opera by Rimsky
\_Korsakov and a film by Peter Shaffer. FTP name this Italian musician best known for his apocryphal rivalry to Mozart. 
\par  \tab Answer: Antonio }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Salieri }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 12. It first came into being in the Treaty of Verdun in 842 as part of Francia Media, which was allotted to Lo
thar, eldest son of Louis the Pious. It would continue to pass between Germany and France until modern times. It was annexed by Germany in both World Wars and returned finally to France in 1945. FTP name this region west of the Rhine in northeast France. 

\par  \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Alsace\_Lorraine }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 13. This American author was inspired by Zola, the social Darwinists, and Le Conte. Born in Chicago, he wrote for McClure's during the Spanish American war, and was also a reporter during the Boer War. For 10 points, identify th
is naturalist and author of Moran of the Lady Letty, McTeague, and The Octopus. \tab 
\par \tab Answer: Frank }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Norris }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 14. Matsya is a fish, Kurma is a tortoise, and Kalki will be a winged white horse. They are all associated with one spirit, usually represented as four\_
armed, carrying a shell, discus, and a lotus. For ten points, name this Hindu spirit, perhaps best associated with the human incarnations Rama and Krishna. 
\par  \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Vishnu }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 15. The addition of the Filioque clause, which was recognized by the Council
 of Toledo in 589, touched off a controversy which was a chief doctrinal cause of the schism between the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches. Designed to combat the heresy of Arius, it was issued a council in 325 A.D. For 10 points, name this fam
ous creed. 
\par  \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Nicene}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  Creed or Creed of Nicea
\par  
\par 16. It contains a binary star system which can be viewed through a small telescope. It also contains a faint star surrounded by the Ring Nebula, One of the brightest visible stars, Vega, is also part of
 this constellation.  For 10 points, identify constellation which is also known as the harp.  
\par  \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lyra}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 17. It was an allegorical work celebrating the moral values of Christianic chivalry. Book 3 is a rendition of the Iliad, plus Britomart and her 
adventure. Book 4 is Calidove versus the Blatant Beast. Book 1 is the Red Cross Knight led astray. For 10 points, identify this late 16th century six book epic poem by Edmund Spenser. 
\par  \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Faerie Queene}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 18. The version we know today was designed by
 Dr. Antoine Louis, and was called the Louison. However, in 1789, a member of the Constitutional Assembly proposed that a uniform method of capital punishment be established, and it was henceforth named after him. FTP name this decapitating machine.  

\par  \tab Answer: Guillotine  
\par  
\par 19. He told the jury that: it was not him, but another man that looks just like him with the same name, Jeffrey Dahmer was killed to scare him, and his last defense witness claimed that the CIA controlled him through a computer chip. F
or ten points name this self\_made "lawyer" convicted for shootings on a subway train. 
\par  \tab Answer: Colin }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ferguson}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 20. In 1746, this author signed a contract with booksellers for a work which took him 9 years to complete. He suffered  from scrofula as a chi
ld, which permanently damaged his sight. For ten points, name this British author who was the subject of a biography by Boswell and the creator of a famous dictionary.  
\par  \tab Answer: Samuel }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Johnson}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 21. Her stories usually follow the "slice of life" technique, describing a few typical hours in her characters' lives. She was born Kathleen Beauchamp, and was one of the few twentieth century writers to focus exclusively on the short story. FTP name this
 native of New Zealand known for the stories "Bliss", "A Dill Pickle", and "The Garden Party". 
\par  \tab Ans: Katherine Mansfield  
\par  
\par 22. They consist of ganglia, a gastrovascular cavity, ventral nerve cords, a pharynx and eyespots. For ten points, what is this simple organism of Class Turbellaria, a favorite among biologists because of its regenerative properties? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Flatworm}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  or }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 planarian}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 23. Son of Tithonus and Eos, this Prince came to the aid of his uncle, Priam, after the death of Hector to help fight 
the besieging Greeks until slain by Achilles; Eos so moved Zeus with her lamentations that he restored the fallen warrior to life, granted him immortality and changed his grief\_stricken followers into birds. FTP name this Ethiopian ally of Troy. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Memnon}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 24. In thermodynamics, its always best to carefully define the system you are performing calculations on. For ten points, what is the nine letter term for a system that is thermally isolated from its surroundings. 
\par  \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 adiabatic}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par \page }{\b\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 1995 ACF Regionals 
\par Questions by University of Memphis and Western Michigan 
\par }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 1. Although Warren G. Harding presided over a scandalous administration, there were a few honest and competent men in his cabinet. FTP apiece:  
\par 1. Name Harding's Secretary of Commerce, also a future president.
\par \tab Answer: Herbert }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hoover}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. This Secretary of the Treasury was then, one of the richest men in the nation.  
\par \tab Answer: Andrew }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mellon}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. As a former Supreme Court justice and candidate for president in 1916, this Seretary of State was particularly successful. 
\par \tab Answer: Charles Evan }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hughes}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 2. Name the South American nation for 10 points on the first clue and five points on the second.  
\par 1st 10 pts.Its neighbored by Bolivia to the North and Argentina to the south. 
\par 5pts. \_ Its one of the two landlocked nations; and has its capital at Asuncion. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Paraguay}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2nd 10 pts. Its official language is Dutch and some 40% of the population emigrated to the Netherlands before its forced independence in 1975. 
\par 5 pts. \_ Its located on the northern coast of the continent between Guyana and French Guiana. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Surinam}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3rd 10 pts. It shares the Tierra del Fuego with Argentina 
\par 5 pts. \_ Its capital is at Santiago and it includes some of  the world's highest peaks. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Chile}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 3. Greek philosophy can be such a joy. For fifteen points apiece, identify the following works of Plato given a brief description. 
\par 1. This work begins with Socrates discussing the nature of justice with Cephalus, Polemarchus, and Thrasymachus, among others. 
\par \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Republic }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. This dialogue describes the principle of reciprocal justice and Socrates explains his idea of social contact and political obligation. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Crito}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 4. Identify the following baroque composers for ten points each. 1. He conceived the idea of using the letters of his name as the theme of his unfinished final fugue, The Art of Fugue. 
\par \tab Answer: J. S. }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Bach}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Said to have been killed by a cold caught from being locked out of his own house, he was the greatest 17th century British composer.
\par \tab Answer: Henry }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Purcell}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. He wrote no purely instrumental works, but wrote what is considered history's first operas, such as Orpheus. 
\par \tab Answer: Claudio }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Monteverdi}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 5. First, on a 20/10 basis identify the Austrian philosopher and physicist. 
\par 1. 20) He theorized that sound waves emitted from an object traveling faster than the speed of sound would be confined to a conical region with the object at the apex. He shared his name with the cone. 
\par 10) A "number" which is the ratio of the speed of an object to the local speed of sound is named after him. 
\par \tab Answer: Ernst }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mach}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. For a final 10 points what other Austrian physicist theorized that sound waves are a higher frequency as you approach and a lower frequency as they go away. 
\par \tab Answer: Christian }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Doppler}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 6. Name the 20th century art movement from a list of its paintings for ten points each. If you need a painter, you will only receive 5 points. 
\par 1st 10 pts: The Portuguese; and Les Desmoiselles d'Avignon 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-4896\li4896\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin4896\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 5 pts: Braque \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Cubism}{
\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 2nd 10 pts: Joy of Life; and Woman with a hat \tab \tab 
\par 5 pts: Mattisse \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Fauvism }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3rd 10 pts: Composition in Red, Yellow, and Blue 
\par 5 pts: Mondrian \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: De }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Stijl}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  or }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 neoplasticim}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 7. Given a Beatles song, for five points apiece, you name the album it comes from. 
\par 1. Penny Lane \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Magical Mystery Tour }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Oh Darlin \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Abbey Road }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Drive My Car  \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Rubber Soul }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4. Rocky Raccoon \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 White Album }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-3456\li3456\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin3456\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 5. Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sgt Peppers}{
\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  Lonely Hearts Club Band 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 6. Yesterday \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 HELP! }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 8. Fables are rather popular in a literary sense. Identify the following dealing with literary works containing the word "fable" for ten points each. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-6336\li6336\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin6336\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 1. His novel, simply entitled "A Fable", won the Pulitzer Prize. \tab \tab 
\tab \tab \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Faulkner }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. His "A Fable for Critics" satirizes such writers as Emerson, Longfellow, and Hawthorne.  \tab \tab Answer: James Russel }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 
Lowell }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. His "Fables in Slang" consists of humorous tales illustrating the common sense of ordinary people. \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ade }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 9. 30\_20\_10, name the leader. 
\par 1. During his reign, he published a new law code and introduced an administrative system called the Oprichnina 
\par 2. His reign also saw Russia gain control of the Volga river, as well as Moscow being made its capital. 
\par 3.Known for killing his own son with his own hands, he is generally acknowledged as Russia's first czar. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ivan IV}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  or }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ivan the Terrible}{
\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 10. Identify the following Greek philosophers for ten points each. 
\par 1. Although he correctly explained eclipses, he is better known for being the teacher of Pericles, Thucydides, Euripides, and possibly Socrates. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Anaxagoras }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Regarded by some as the founder of Greek philosophy, he believed water was the primary substance in the universe. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Thales }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-576\li576\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin576\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. A pupil of Antisthenes, his nickname was Kyon, or dog, which was probably a comment on his unusual mode of living. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Diogenes }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 11. Given a mountain range, name the highest peak in the range for five points each. 
\par 1. Andes  \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Aconcagua}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Alps \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Mont }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Blanc}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Caucasus\tab \tab \tab Answer: Mount }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Elbrus}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4. Ural\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Mount }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Narodnaya}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 5. Atlas \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jebel Toubkal}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 6. Cascades  \tab \tab \tab Answer: Mount }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ranier}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 12. 30\_20\_10, name the American novelist. 
\par 1. Some of her writings include the play The Square Root of Wonderful and the novel Clock Without Hands 
\par 2. The Mortgaged Heart, published in 1971, is a posthumous collection of her writings. 
\par 3. More famous works by this author include The Ballad of Sad Cafe and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Carson }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 McCullers }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 13. Given the moon, name the planet it orbits for five points each. 
\par 1. Titania \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Uranus}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Charon  \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Pluto}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Amalthea \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jupiter}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4. Triton  \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Neptune}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 5. Io \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jupiter}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 6. Enceladus \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Saturn}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 14. On a 30\_20\_10 basis name this person from Greek mythology. 
\par 1. One of the lesser\_told tales of her speaks of her abduction and rape, at the age of 12, by Theseus. 
\par 2. Another tells of her death, like her sister's, at the hands of Orestes. She was a daughter of Leda. 
\par 3. She is best\_known for being kidnapped by Paris which started the Trojan War. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Helen}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  (Helen of Troy) 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 15. Few countries have had as many colorful rulers as France. For five points each, given a French king, name the dynasty from which he came. 
\par 1. Henry IV \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Bourbon}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Louis Philippe \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Orleans}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Louis X, the Stubborn\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Capetian}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4. Francis II \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Valois}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 5. Charles II, the Bald \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Carolingian}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 6. Philip V, the Tall \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Capetian}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 16. Identify the following terms from English prosody for ten points each.
\par 1. It is a foot of two accented syllables, and is rare to find in a single English word. \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Spondee }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. A foot consisting of two syllables, the first accented and the second unaccented. An example is the word careful. \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Trochee }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. A foot consisting of three syllables, the first two unaccented and the third accented. Example: Cigarette. \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Anapest }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 17. Answer the following questions about the kidney for ten points each. 
\par 1. First, these tiny filters are unit of structure and function of the kidney. There are about one million in each kidney. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Nephron}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. In the nephron, what is the term for the structure which is basically a lot of capillaries? 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Glomerulus }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The glomerulus fits into a cup\_shaped cellular structure which leads to the kidney tubule. What name is given to this structure?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Bowman's}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  capsule
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 18. Love statistics? Sure! We all do! For ten points each given the formula, tell me the statistical measure that I'm measuring. 
\par 1. The sum of all measurements divided by the total number of measurements. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mean}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  or }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Average }{
\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. The square root of the sum of the squared differences of the measurements from their mean, divided by the number of measurements minus one. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 standard deviation }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The standard deviation divided by the square root of the number of measurements 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Standard error}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  of the mean 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 19. For fifteen points each, name the following historical groups. 
\par 1. This was a name given, sometimes disparagingly, to members of the fourteenth\_century English movement associated with John Wycliff. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lollards }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Opponents of the introduction of labor\_saving machinery, they often smashed textile\_making machines that threatened their job. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Luddites }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 20. For five points each, and a five point bonus for them all, identify the authors of the following works whose titles contain the word "time".  
\par 1. A Dance to the Music of Time  \tab Answer: Anthony }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Powell}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. The Time Machine  \tab \tab Answer: H.G. }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Wells}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Timebends \tab \tab \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Miller}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4. A Hero of Our Time \tab \tab Answer: Mikhail }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lermontov}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 5. The Time of Your Life \tab \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Saroyan}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par  
\par 21. For ten points each, given an expanded definition of a unit from the study of physics, give the unit. 
\par 1. Kilogram meter squared per second squared. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Joule}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Volt second per meter squared. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Tesla}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Tesla meter squared per ampere. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Henry}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 22. Answer the following questions about early US transportation system. 
\par 1. In 1807 these two men proved that boat travel powered by steam was a feasable form of transportation with the Clairmont. FTP each name them.  
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Robert }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Fulton}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  and Robert }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Livingston}{
\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
2. This company pioneered railroad steam engines in the US, being the first to investigate steam engine time trials in England. Name this company better recognizable from a Monopoly board.  
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Baltimore and Ohio}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 23. Answer the following questions about the character of Creon in Sophocle's Antigone for ten points each.  
\par 1. Which two nephews of Creon were killed? 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Eteocles and Polynices}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Who was the son of Creon and the lover of Antigone? 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Haemon}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Who was Creon's sister, who was the mother of Oedipus? 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1296\li1296\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jocasta}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 { 
\par }}