{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f45\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f47\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f50\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min7}{\revtim\yr2000\mo10\dy28\hr13\min15}
{\version7}{\edmins14}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords4367}{\nofchars24895}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws30572}{\vern8247}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0
\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Arizona State University (Peter Freeman)}{\f0 
\par }{\b\f0 Tossups
\par }{\f0 1. Hieronimo has revenge on his mind after his son Horatio is killed and left hanging in an arbor.  Hieronimo and Horatio's love, Bel-Imperia, conspire to stage a play in which the villains, including a prince of Portugal, are
\par induced to take part; they are then killed, and Hieronimo kills himself. For 10 points, this describes the action in what late 16th-century play, the most famous drama of Thomas Kyd?
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Spanish Tragedy}{\f0 
\par 
\par 2. A bicameral legislature; an executive chosen by the legislature; a judiciary including a supreme court and inferior courts elected by the legislature; and a council of revision consisting of the executive and members of the
\par judiciary, which could veto legislative acts.  These are among 15 resolutions proposed in May 1787, soon to be countered by a proposal of William Patterson. For 10 points, name this federal plan, named for the state of its proposer,
\par Edmund Randolph.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Virginia}{\f0  Plan
\par 
\par 3. T
heir name is derived from the Gaelic for "rounded hill" or "mound."  A typical size is one kilometer long, 20 meters high, and 500 meters wide.  Commonly found clustered, they disrupt drainage such that lakes and swamps may be formed.  For 10 points, name
 these oval or elongated hills formed by the movement of glaciers across rock debris, or till.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 drumlins}{\f0 
\par 
\par 4. It introduces the characters of Charley Anderson, airplane manufacturer; J. Ward Moorhouse; Eleanor Stoddard; and Fainy "Mac" McCreary, who joins the Mexican Revolution.  Set in the days just before World War I, this novel
\par interweaves events from these character's lives with biographies of real-life contemporaries such as Eugene Debs.  For 10 points, name this first book of the }{\i\f0 U.S.A. Trilogy}{\f0  by John dos Passos.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 42nd Parallel}{\f0  (prompt on \'93USA Trilogy\'94 before \'93this novel\'94 is read)
\par 
\par 5. This painter\rquote s indulgence of visual fantasy, and appreciation of different historic architectural styles can be seen in his 1840 }{\i\f0 Architect\rquote s Dream}{\f0 . After a series of paintings on }{\i\f0 The Last of the Mohicans}{\f0 
, he made a three year trip to Europe in 1829, but he is better known for a trip four years earlier in which he journeyed up the Hudson River to the Catskill Mountains. FTP, name this painter of }{\i\f0 The Oxbow}{\f0  and The}{\i\f0  Voyage of Life}{\f0 
 series.
\par Answer: Thomas }{\b\f0 Cole}{\f0 
\par 
\par 6. A colorless, flammable liquid that boils at 133 degrees Fahrenheit, it is capable of dissolving many fats and resins, as well as cellulose ethers and esters.  This solvent is also used extensively in th
e manufacture of artificial fabrics (like rayon) and explosives. For 10 points, name this organic solvent with formula C-H-3-C-O-C-H-3, the simplest of the aliphatic ketones.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 acetone}{\f0 
\par 
\par 7. He was king at birth, since his father died during the pregnancy of Maria Cristina.  Parliamentary rule suffered after his assumption of full power in 1902, and numerous attempts were made to assassinate him, like the attempt to
\par kill him and Victoria Eugenia of Battenberg on their wedding day in 1906.  His direct association with Primo de Rivera led to his being ousted from the monarchy after Primo de Rivera fell in 1930.  For 10 points, name this last
\par king of Spain before the ascension of Juan Carlos.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Alfonso XIII}{\f0 
\par 
\par 8. One chapter of this work contains the li
ne "no testimony for any kind of miracle has ever amounted to a probability, much less a proof."  This chapter, "On Miracles," was added to the rewritten Book I of the author's earlier "A Treatise of Human Nature" to form this 1748 work.  For 10 points, i
dentify this philosophical work by David Hume.
\par Answer: An }{\b\f0 Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding}{\f0 
\par         [Accept: }{\b\f0 Philosophical Essays Concerning Human Understanding}{\f0 .]
\par 
\par 9. He was many things: a high-school principal, a songwriter for Broadway musicals, a consul in Venezuela and Nicaragua, and a lawyer.  At the age of 41, in 1912, he published his first novel anonymously, and later, in 1927, he 
\par published a group of black dialect sermons in verse.  For 10 points, name this NAACP leader who created the aforementioned }{\i\f0 Autobiography of an Ex-Coloured Man}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 God's Trombones}{\f0 .
\par Answer: James Weldon }{\b\f0 Johnson}{\f0 
\par 
\par 10. Related to the Gaulish goddess Epona and the Irish goddess Macha, she first appears in the "Mabinogion" riding a pale steed.  The wife of Pwyll, she was forced to act as a horse and to carry visitors to the royal court after being
\par unjustly accused of murdering her infant son.  For 10 points, name this woman of Celtic myth, who probably was not asked "Will you ever win?" during her time of penance.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Rhiannon}{\f0  [The reference is to the 1976 Fleetwood Mac song "Rhiannon."]
\par 
\par 11. This author of "Contribution to the Theory of Sense Perception" published his "Lectures on the Mind of Humans and Animals" one year after becoming the first person ever to teach a course on scientific psychology.  After being 
\par passed over to succeed his mentor William von Helmholtz in 1871, wrote the  seminal work "Principles of Physiological Psychology."  For 10 points, name this German, the so-called father of experimental psychology.
\par Answer: Wilhelm }{\b\f0 Wundt}{\f0  
\par 
\par 12. This hormone promotes the breakdown of protein and the metabolism of fat in the body. It also raises the concentration of blood sugar by promoting the breakdown of glycogen, in essence opposing the action of insulin.  It is pro
duced in two distinct forms, one of which is gastrointestinal.  For 10 points, name this pancreatic hormone produced in the islets of Langerhans.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 glucagon}{\f0 
\par 
\par 13. As a lawyer, he became famous for his defense of Azariah Flagg in a vote fraud case, and rich through his representation of railroad interests.  As a governor, he smashed the "Canal Ring," just as he helped smash the "Tweed
\par Ring" as Democratic state chairman.  For 10 points, name this man, who became governor of New York in 1875, and would have become President in 1877 if it were not for that pesky Electoral College.
\par Answer: Samuel }{\b\f0 Tilden}{\f0 
\par 
\par 14. It has a radius of some 1400 kilometers, and because of its retrograde orbit, it will, within the next 100 million years or so, be torn apart to create 
a new ring for its host planet.  It has a tenuous nitrogen atmosphere and exhibited geysers of liquid nitrogen when Voyager 2 passed in 1989.  For 10 points, name this largest moon of the planet Neptune.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Triton}{\f0 
\par 
\par 15. Called the Chambeshi River where it rises, it is divided into three distinct zones, the middle one including the seven cataracts of the Boyoma Falls, and the lower containing the so-called Malebo Pool.  With the Sangha, Kwa,
\par and Ubangi as major tributaries, it flows for some 2900 miles.  For 10 points, name this south-central African river which flows between the cities of Brazzaville and Kinshasa.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Congo}{\f0  (or }{\b\f0 Zaire}{\f0 ) River
\par 
\par 16. Its main character is a hopeless stutterer, taunted by his schoolmates, who eventually becomes an acolyte at a famous temple.  However, he becomes obsessed with its beauty, and cannot live in peace until he burns it down.
\par For 10 points, name this novel about Mizoguchi, which is based upon actual events that took place at the Kinkakuji Temple in Kyoto in 1950 and which was written by Yukio Mishima.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Temple of the Golden Pavilion}{\f0 
\par 
\par 17. Born in 1469 in Rai Bhoi di Talvandi, he was a member of the mercantile Khatri caste.  After working in a granary, he embarked on a lengthy journey, returning to the Punjab before the attacks of Babur on Saidpur and Lahore,
\par and spending his remaining years in the village of Kartarpur, traditionally built by a wealthy admirer.  For 10 points, this gives much of the known detail about the life of what man, the first guru of Sikhism?
\par Answer: Guru }{\b\f0 Nanak}{\f0 
\par 
\par 18. Characters include the newly ennobled Herr von Faninal, Count Octavian Rofrano, Baron Ochs of Lerchenau, and the Princess von Werdenberg, or the Marschallin.  Set in the 1740s, with libretto by Hugo von Hormannsthal,
\par it is the story of how Baron Ochs loses the young Sophie Faninal to the much younger Octavian.  For 10 points, name this 1911 opera composed by Richard Strauss.
\par Answer: Der }{\b\f0 Rosenkavalier}{\f0  or The }{\b\f0 Cavalier of the Rose}{\f0 
\par 
\par 19. His distribution is one over the product of pi and one plus x squared.  His theorem states that the integral over a closed curve of an analytic complex function is zero if there are no singular points within the curve.  He developed
\par two criteria to test for the convergence of infinite series.  For 10 points, name this baron who introduced clear and rigorous methods into mathematics with three great treatises published in French between 1821 and 1828.
\par Answer: Augustin-Louis, Baron }{\b\f0 Cauchy}{\f0 
\par 
\par 20. This man, who asked to be addressed as "master and god," began a reign of terror with the execution of his cousin Flavius Sabinus, a reign which continued through the revolt of Saturninus in Upper Germany and which late in his life
\par was directed against Senators.  For 10 points, name this successor of Titus who ruled from 81 to 96 AD, the last of the Flavian emperors.
\par Answer: Caesar }{\b\f0 Domitian}{\f0 us Augustus
\par 
\par 21. After the death of Sigismund II Augustus, the last of the Jagiellonian line, the nobles in this nation elected Henry of Valois, the future Henry III of France,
 as king.  Later elected rulers included members of the Swedish Vasa line, and from 1674 to 1696 the great hetman John III Sobieski, who defeated the Turks seizing Vienna in 1683.  For 10 points, name this nation which continued electing kings until it wa
s partitioned out of existence.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Poland}{\f0 
\par 
\par 22. He was the editor of }{\i\f0 The Age}{\f0 , a Democratic magazine, and a member of the Illinois House of Representives before being named Chief Justice.  During his 22-year tenure were such cases as }{\i\f0 Pollock v. Farmers' Loan and Trust}{\f0 

\par }{\i\f0 Company}{\f0 , the Danbury Hatters Case, and }{\i\f0 U.S. v. E. C. Knight Co}{\f0 .  For 10 points, name this chief justice appointed by Grover Cleveland, whose court made the "separate but equal" ruling in }{\i\f0 Plessy v. Ferguson}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Melville }{\b\f0 Fuller}{\f0 
\par 
\par 23. This program arose out of an 1946 amendment to the 1944 Surplus Property  Act.  Surplus U.S. property abroad would be sold, with the accrued foreign  currency used to help foreign nationals visit the U.S. for study.  At the same 
\par time, the U.S. would pay for its citizens to go abroad.  For 10 points,  identify this foreign exchange program, named for the senator from Arkansas  who sponsored the original amendment.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Fulbright}{\f0  (Scholarships or Program)
\par 
\par 24. At the age of 16, he wrote the manuscript "Memoirs
 of a Mad Man," which related his passion for Elisa Schlesinger, a passion he would finally reveal to her 35 years later.  Elisa became the model for his character Marie Arnoux, who is lusted after by Frederic Moreau in a novel set around the Revolution o
f 1848.  For 10 points, name this French author of }{\i\f0 The Sentimental Education}{\f0  who is more famous of his }{\i\f0 Madame Bovary}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Gustave }{\b\f0 Flaubert}{\f0 
\par 
\par 25. The Coulomb one, in which the divergence of the vector potential is set to zero, is often used when sources a
re not present.  Within the Lorentz one, the divergence of the vector potential plus the product of one over c and the time derivative of the scalar potential is zero.  Transformations given this name include, for instance, the addition of the gradient of
 a scalar function to the vector potential.  For 10 points, give this physics term denoting the invariance of electromagnetic fields to particular changes in the potentials.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 gauge}{\f0 
\par 
\par 26. In February 1999, IBM became the latest of a string of companies, including Hewlett-Packard, Dell, and Silicon Graphics, to declare that they would begin selling computers with this particular feature, developed in Finland by
\par Linus Torvalds, and distributed by Red Hat Software Inc.  For 10 points, name this potential threat to Microsoft, a free version of the Unix operating system.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Linux}{\f0 
\par 
\par 27. He married Marie-Anne Gerard, but five years later fell in love with her 14-year-old sister Marguerite, in collaboration with which he would paint genre scenes such as "The
 Beloved Child" during the years preceding the French Revolution.  Other works of his include "Return of the Herd," "Head of an Old Man," and one particularly famous semierotic outdoor party scene.  For 10 points, name this French Rococo artist who around
 1766 painted "The Swing."
\par Answer: Jean-Honore }{\b\f0 Fragonard}{\f0 
\par 
\par 28. After being denied refuge by, or forced out of, Lebanon, Syria, Russia,  Italy, Germany, and the Netherlands, he hid in the Greek embassy in Nairobi. But he was captured this month after apparently being tricked into leaving that
\par embassy, and was smuggled to the country where he will go on trial for terrorist activities.  For 10 points, name this leader of the PKK, a Kurdish separatist movement, who is now being held by Turkey.
\par Answer: Abdullah }{\b\f0 Ocalan }{\f0  
\par 
\par 29. This organization was co-founded by a nephew of King Sisavang Vong, Prince Souphanouvong.  A constant part of its country's governments after the 1954 Geneva Conference, it became increasing Communist, and, in 1975, at the same time as Communis
t-led organizations swept into power in neighboring Cambodia and Vietnam, it swept into power by taking the city of Vientiane. For 10 points, name this nationalist movement of Laos.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Pathet Lao}{\f0  
\par 
\par 30. It is a mostly treeless savanna, which is generally cooler than 75 degrees and can receive over 100 inches of rainfall per year.  Rarely exceeding 1000  feet elevation, it is bordered by the Guiana Highlands, Guaviare River, Andes
\par Mountains, and the basins of the Amazon and Orinoco.  For 10 points, identify this important cattle raising area of Colombia and Venezuela, whose name is Spanish for "plains."
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Llanos}{\f0  
\par 
\par 31. In it, a traveler quotes words that appear on an ancient statue's pedestal, among them "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!"  All that is left are "two vast and trunkless legs of stone" and nearby, half-buried in the sand,
\par "a shattered visage" with a "frown, and wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command."  For 10 points, name this poem about an ancient "king of kings," written by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ozymandias}{\f0  
\par \page }{\b\f0 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Arizona State University
\par Bonuses}{\f0 
\par 
\par 1. Answer these questions about the first Reform Bill in Britain, passed in 1832.
\par 1. What two-word term was used to designate voting districts in which a single powerful man could almost completely control voting?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 pocket boroughs}{\f0 
\par 2. What other two-word term was used to designate voting districts that had become virtually depopulated?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 rotten boroughs}{\f0 
\par 3. The first Reform Bill was authored by what Prime Minister?
\par Answer: Charles Grey, 2nd Earl }{\b\f0 Grey}{\f0 
\par 
\par 2. Answer these related chemistry questions for 10 points per answer.
\par 1. What acid is principally produced via the Ostwald Process?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 nitric }{\f0 acid
\par 2. Early alchemists found that when you mix one part of nitric acid with three parts of another particular acid, you can dissolve gold.  What is this other acid, and what two-word Latin name is given to the combination?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 hydrochloric}{\f0  acid, }{\b\f0 aqua regia}{\f0 
\par 
\par 3. This Anglo-American theory of literary criticism focused attention on an individual work along as an independent unit of meaning, and received its name from the title of a 1941 John Crowe Ransom book.  For 15 points each,
\par 1. Name this movement.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 New Criticism
\par }{\f0 2. Name the man who first used the term \'93New Criticism\'94 in a 1910 address at Columbia University.
\par Answer: Joel }{\b\f0 Spingarn
\par }{\f0 3. Ransom, along with Katherine Anne Porter and Robert Penn Warren, was a regular contributor to this influential American literary quarterly which began publication in 1935.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Southern Review}{\f0 
\par 
\par 4. For the stated number of points each, identify these French painters of the 20th century.
\par 1. (5) He created the first papier colle, but is best known for his association with Pablo Picasso in the cubist movement.
\par Answer: Georges }{\b\f0 Braque}{\f0 
\par 2. (10) A frequenter of the Paris courts, the favorite subjects of this painter of }{\i\f0 The Old King}{\f0  were prostitutes, tragic clowns, and judges.
\par Answer: Georges-Henri }{\b\f0 Rouault}{\f0 
\par 3. (15) This man was associated with Purism during the 1920s, at one time had a style dubbed "tubism," and this painter of 1919\rquote s }{\i\f0 The City}{\f0  was the developer of the so-called "machine art" style.
\par Answer: Fernand }{\b\f0 Leger}{\f0 
\par 
\par 5. Answer the following related questions for 10 points each.
\par 1. What are defined as vascular plants whose seeds are not enclosed by a ripened ovary (i.e. a fruit)?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 gymnosperm}{\f0 
\par 2. In 1825, what Scottish botanist distinguished the gymnosperms from the angiosperms?
\par Answer: Robert }{\b\f0 Brown}{\f0 
\par 3. Now, Gymnosperm is now considered an informal term collectively denoting four divisions of related plants.  Name any of this divisions, each with suffix -phyta.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Coniferophyta}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 Cycadophyta}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 Ginkgophyta}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 Gnetophyta}{\f0 
\par 
\par 6. Given a pair of cities, name the country a traveler would fly over getting from one to the other by the shortest route, of course not including the country of departure and arrival.  For instance, if I said "Cairo and Kiev," you would say "Turkey."

\par 1. Yangon and Phnom Penh
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Thailand}{\f0 
\par 2. Budapest and Warsaw
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Slovakia}{\f0 
\par 3. Addis Ababa and Dar es Salaam
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Kenya}{\f0 
\par 
\par 7. Given a very brief synopsis, identify these Platonic dialogues for 10 points each.
\par 1. Named for a disciple of Socrates, it contains four arguments for the immortality of the soul.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Phaedo}{\f0 n
\par 2. It is named for the man who attempts to convince Socrates to escape from prison.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Crito}{\f0 n
\par 3. The subject of this dialogue, taking place just before the trial of Socrates, is the virtue of piety.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Euthyphro}{\f0 n
\par 
\par 8. Given synopses of three famous works, identify their common author, 30-20-10, or 5 if you need another clue.
\par 1. (30) As a child, Miranda hears of the reverence for her dead aunt.  As an adolescent, Miranda discovers that her aunt actually had been a quite self-centered woman to whose whims the dreams of others had been sacrificed.
\par 2. (20) It is an account of the voyage of the "Vera" from Veracruz to Bremerhaven in 1931, and takes its title from Sebastian Brant's "Das Narrenshiff."
\par 3. (10) It is the story of a short-lived affair between Miranda, now a newspaperwoman, and a soldier during the influenza epidemic of World War I.
\par 4. (5) The title work in the 1939 collection of three short novels is }{\i\f0 Pale Horse, Pale Rider}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Katherine Anne }{\b\f0 Porter}{\f0 ["Old Mortality," "Ship of Fools," and "Pale Horse, Pale Rider" respectively, FYI]
\par 
\par 9. Answer these questions about the annexation of Hawaii FTP each.
\par 1. Who was the last ruler an independent Hawaii?
\par Answer: Queen Lydia }{\b\f0 Lili}{\f0 uokalani
\par 2. Which man led the revolutionary committee of safety that plotted to overthrow the native government, and became the first president of the republic in 1894?
\par Answer: Sanford B. }{\b\f0 Dole}{\f0 
\par 3. What pro-annexationist U.S. minister to Hawaii supported Dole and his revolutionary committee?
\par Answer: John L. }{\b\f0 Stevens
\par 
\par }{\f0 10. Don\rquote t you know that composing can be a dangerous occupation? Identify these unfortunates who are now busy decomposing on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10. Although this man probably did not influence Kris Kross, he most definitely missed the bus after one smacked his ass down in 1890, and he died of complications a few months later. Maybe he should have jumped.
\par       5. Works like a }{\i\f0 Violin Sonata in A}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Variations Symphoniques}{\f0 , and a }{\i\f0 Symphony in D minor}{\f0  show that this Belgian-French organist was Da Bomb.
\par Answer: C}{\f0\cgrid0 \'e9}{\f0 sar }{\b\f0 Franck
\par }{\f0 2. 10. Talk about Smashmouth! This French composer was merrily bicycling in 1899 when he somehow ran headfirst into a wall and fractured his skull.
\par       5. This pupil of Franck wrote }{\i\f0 Viviane}{\f0 , a symphonic poem on a legend of the Round Table, but is best known for his }{\i\f0 Po}{\f0\cgrid0 \'e8}{\i\f0 me for Violin and Orchestra}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Ernest }{\b\f0 Chausson}{\f0 
\par 3. 10. This composer learned firsthand that smoking is bad for your health as he was shot dead by a US soldier in Salzburg who mistook his lighted cigarette for the glint of a rifle in 1945.
\par       5. This pupil of Schoenberg wrote relatively little music, including a concerto for nine instruments, and the }{\i\f0 Orchestral Variations}{\f0  of 1940.
\par Answer: Anton von }{\b\f0 Webern}{\f0 
\par 
\par 11. Identify these particular types of matrices or their determinants for 10 points each.
\par 1. This is the determinant of the matrix of first partial derivatives of functions y with respect to variables x.  It is used in parameter transformations.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Jacobian}{\f0 
\par 2. This is the matrix of second partial derivatives of a function.  It is used in statistics, for instance in the theory of least squares.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Hessian}{\f0 
\par 3. This is the determinant of the matrix whose first row consists of n functions y, whose second row consists of n first derivatives of y, etc.  If zero, the n functions are linearly dependent.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Wronskian}{\f0 
\par 
\par 12. In Norse mythology, it is the race of gods responsible for wealth and fertility.  Answer these questions about this race for 10 points each.
\par 1. What was it called?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Vanir}{\f0 
\par 2. What wisest member of the Aesir was sent as a hostage to the Vanir, who eventually decapitated him?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Mimir}{\f0 
\par 3. What poet and wisest of all men was born of the saliva of the Aesir and Vanir?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Kvasir}{\f0 
\par 
\par 13. Identify these German literary icons from works for the stated number of  points.
\par 1. (5) This Weimar classicist wrote the plays "Wallenstein" and "Mary Stuart."
\par Answer: (Johann Christoph) Friedrich von }{\b\f0 Schiller}{\f0 
\par 2. (10) This German romantic wrote the poem "Die Lorelei" in 1827.
\par Answer: Heinrich (or Chaim Harry) }{\b\f0 Heine}{\f0 
\par 3. (15) Known for both writing dramas and novellas, his works include "The Broken Jug" and "Michael Kohlhaas."
\par Answer: Heinrich von }{\b\f0 Kleist}{\f0 
\par 
\par 14. Have you been following ESPN's SportsCentury?  If so, you can probably name each of the following sports stars for 10 points each.
\par 1. At #93 is this "Alabama Antelope," who in the 1942 NFL season had 74 receptions; the next best receiver had 27.
\par Answer: Don }{\b\f0 Hutson}{\f0 
\par 2. At #68 is this man, who beat Fortune Gordien, Rink Babka, Ludvik Danek, and Jay Silvester, the favorites for the gold in four consecutive Olympics, for four discus gold medals.
\par Answer: Al }{\b\f0 Oerter}{\f0 
\par 3. At #50 is this woman, winner of 18 tennis Grand Slam singles titles, including 7 French Open titles, and popularizer of the two-handed backhand.
\par Answer: Chris }{\b\f0 Evert
\par 
\par }{\f0 15. Stellar dwarfs n\rquote  stuff FTP each.
\par 1. A "failed" star of less than 0.08 solar masses, for which nuclear fusion never begins in the core.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 brown dwarf}{\f0 
\par 2. The closest red dwarf star to the Earth.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Proxima Centauri}{\f0 
\par 3. The endpoint of stellar evolution for small- and intermediate-mass stars.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 white dwarf}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16. Identify these battles of the War of 1812 for 10 points each.
\par 1. U.S. forces under Jacob Brown fought to a draw with 3,000 British troops under Riall and Drummond on July 25, 1814, effectively ending the U.S. advance on the Canadian side of the Niagara frontier.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f0 Lundy's Lane}{\f0 
\par 2. In this naval battle, the U.S., led by Thomas Macdonough, defeated the British under George Downie, compelling the army of George Prevost to retreat to Canada.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f0 Lake Champlain}{\f0 
\par 3. In this battle in Upper Canada, won by the U.S. under William Henry Harrison, the Kentucky mounted regiment under Richard Mentor Johnson shone.
\par Answer: Battle of the }{\b\f0 Thames}{\f0 
\par 
\par 17. Identify these Robert Browning works for 10 points each:
\par 1. The supposed speaker, a literati of the 12th century, says, "Grow old along with me! / The best is yet to be."
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Rabbi Ben Ezra}{\f0 
\par 2. This child laborer in a silk mill ends one of her songs with "God's in his heaven- / All's right with the world!"
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Pippa Passes}{\f0 
\par 3. This "Faultless Painter" tells of his consuming passion for his unscrupulous wife, Lucrezia.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Andrea del Sarto
\par 
\par }{\f0 18. Identify these people associated with the story of the Odyssey for 10 points each.
\par 1. The story opens on the island of Ogygia, where this sea-nymph lives.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Calypso}{\f0 
\par 2. After being shipwrecked on the island of Scherie, this daughter of King Alcinous and Queen Arete befriends Odysseus.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Nausicaa}{\f0 
\par 3. The leader of this race of cannibal giants ate one of Odysseus' representatives, who had been sent to request permission to land in Sicily.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Laestrygonians}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 Laistrygones}{\f0 
\par 
\par 19. For 5 points each, given an archaeological site, name the current nation in which it is located.
\par 1. Hissarlik
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Turkey}{\f0  [Troy]
\par 2. Harappa
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Pakistan}{\f0  [Indus River]
\par 3. Monte Alban
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Mexico}{\f0  [Zapotec]
\par 4. Sutton Hoo burial mound
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Great Britain}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 United Kingdom}{\f0 
\par 5. Knossos
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Greece}{\f0  [Minoan]
\par 6. Tiahuanaco
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Bolivia}{\f0  [pre-Incan]
\par 
\par 20. Answer these questions about the civil rights movement for 10 points each.
\par 1. In 1960, the first sit-ins were held at a Woolworths in what city?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Greensboro}{\f0 , North Carolina
\par 2. Also in 1960, what organization was founded at Shaw University?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 S}{\f0 tudent }{\b\f0 N}{\f0 on-Violent }{\b\f0 C}{\f0 oordinating }{\b\f0 C}{\f0 ommittee
\par 3. Later, in 1967, what man was elected mayor of Cleveland, becoming the first black mayor of a major city?
\par Answer: Carl }{\b\f0 Stokes}{\f0 
\par 
\par 21. Identify the following Japanese physicists on a 15-5 basis.
\par 1. (15) His research on quantum electrodynamics was initially done in isolation during World War II, and only came to the attention of the West in 1947.
\par    (5)  He won the 1965 Nobel Prize with Schwinger and Feynman.
\par Answer: Shin'ichiro }{\b\f0 Tomonaga}{\f0 
\par 2. (15) In 1935, he proposed a new theory of nuclear forces that predicted the existence of particular particles with masses between those of electrons and protons.
\par    (5)  He won the 1949 Nobel Prize for this prediction of mesons.
\par Answer: Hideki }{\b\f0 Yukawa}{\f0 
\par 
\par 22. Identify these people with roles in the Microsoft anti-trust follies for 10 points each.
\par 1. The judge presiding over the federal anti-trust trial.
\par Answer: Thomas Penfield Jackson
\par 2. The Microsoft vice-president who conceded that he had testified incorrectly about the ease with which the Netscape browser can or cannot be installed onto the Windows desktop.
\par Answer: Brad Chase
\par 3. The Justice Department lawyer leading the Government prosecution.
\par Answer: David Boies
\par 
\par 23. Identify these people, places, or things from "Don Quixote" for the stated number of points each.
\par 1. (5) Aldonza Lorenzo is transformed into this character by Don Quixote.
\par Answer: Dulcinea del Toboso
\par 2. (5) This is Don Quixote's horse.
\par Answer: Rocinante
\par 3. (10) This is the "island" of which Don Quixote is named governor.
\par Answer: Barataria
\par 4. (10) This is the name of Sancho Panza's donkey.
\par Answer: Dapple
\par 
\par 24. Given the name of a city or town, name the lake on which it sits, for the stated number of points each.
\par 1. (5) Toronto
\par Answer: Lake }{\b\f0 Ontario}{\f0 
\par 2. (10) Yellowknife
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Great Slave}{\f0  Lake
\par 2. (15) Ujiji and Bujumbura
\par Answer: Lake }{\b\f0 Tanganyika}{\f0  [Ujiji is the meeting place of Livingstone and Stanley.]
\par 
\par 25. After the promulgation of the Golden Bull in 1356, there were seven electors for the Holy Roman Empire.  Identify these for 10 points each.
\par 1. The only outright king in the group hailed from this nation-state.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Bohemia}{\f0 
\par 2. The elector from that region encompassing all lands between Thuringia to Lusatia, bordering on Bohemia, along the upper course of the Elbe.
\par Answer: Duke of }{\b\f0 Saxony}{\f0 
\par 3. The elector representing the city and region in which Karl Marx was later born.
\par Answer: Archbishop of }{\b\f0 Trier}{\f0 
\par 
\par 26. Identify these -isms from the early history of Christianity for 10 points each.
\par 1. This term signifies the belief that Christ is altogether divine although he underwent a cycle of birth, life, and death.  It went against the two nature-divine and human-doctrine asserted at Chalcedon in 451.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 monophysitism}{\f0 
\par 2. Believers in this broke with the Roman Catholics in 312 over the election of Caecilian as bishop of Carthage.  Concentrated in North Africa, it was opposed by St. Augustine.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 donatism}{\f0 
\par 3. Proposed by an Alexandrian presbyter, it held that Christ is not divine but a created being.  It was condemned in 325.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 arianism}{\f0 
\par 
\par 27. Identify these men associated with the politics of Latin America for the stated number of points each.1. 
\par (5) This man was the first avowed Marxist to win a Latin American presidency.
\par Answer: Salvador Allende Gossens
\par 2. (10) This man founded the Sendero Luminoso at Ayacucho University in 1970.
\par Answer: Abimael Guzman
\par 3. (15) This leader of the National Rubber Tappers Association was murdered in 1988 in Brazil by agents of right-wing landowners.  He had fought to save the rain forest.
\par Answer: Chico Mendes
\par 
\par 28. Identify these participants in the current Kosovo peace talks in France, for 10 points each.
\par 1. The Serbian president.
\par Answer: Milan Milutinovic
\par 2. The president of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo.
\par Answer: Ibrahim Rugova
\par 3. Now, identify the chateau near Paris where these talks have been held.
\par Answer: Rambouillet
\par 
\par 29. Can you keep those confusingly named Assyrian kings straight in your mind? For 10 points each, name these.
\par 1. The library organizer, he ruled from 668 to 627 BC.
\par Answer: Ashurbanipal
\par 2. The third man with this name, he was king of Assyria from 745 to 727 BC, and he inaugurated the last and greatest phase of Assyrian expansion.
\par Answer: Tiglath-pileser III
\par 3. This son of Sargon II made Nineveh his capital while ruling from 704 to 681 BC, and a plague epidemic may have caused the problems during one campaign that later inspired Lord Byron.
\par Answer: Sennacherib
\par 
\par 30. 30-20-10.  Name the composer.
\par 1. (30) He learned lithography from its inventor, Aloys Senefelder, and his family planned to set up a lithographic works to propagate his music.  During the time that fell through, he composed }{\i\f0 The Forest Maiden}{\f0 , which failed in 1800.
\par 2. (20) Other famous works include the operas }{\i\f0 Euryanthe}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Oberon}{\f0 .
\par 3. (10) This German is most famous for ushering in the German Romantic movement in opera with his }{\i\f0 Der Freischutz}{\f0 , or }{\i\f0 The Freeshooter}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Carl Maria von }{\b\f0 Weber
\par 
\par }{\f0 31. For 10 points each, answer the following related questions.
\par 1. In 1990, Taylor, Friedman, and Kendall won the Nobel Prize for their experimental proof of the existence of what?
\par Answer: quarks
\par 2. What two types of quarks comprise protons and neutrons?
\par Answer: up and down
\par 3. The discovery of the J/psi particle in 1974 supported the existence of which particular quark?
\par Answer: charm
\par }}