{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title ACF Regionals 1999}{\author Jason Hong}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min7}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min7}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords4000}{\nofchars22801}{\*\company Computer Science Division}{\nofcharsws28001}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0
\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b 1999 ACF Regionals 
\par Questions by Berkeley A  (Jason Hong, Jon Pennington, Mike Usher)
\par Tossups
\par }{
\par 1. In Sir Walter Scott\rquote s novel }{\i The Talisman}{, he is depicted as a learned and generous ruler, chivalrous and gallant toward his enemies, and courteous and civiliz
ed toward the inhabitants of Jerusalem during the capture of that city. The founder of the Ayyubid dynasty, he ended the 88-year occupation of Jerusalem by the Franks. FTP, who is this famous 12th century Muslim sultan and hero that stalemated the Christi
an counterattack of the Third Crusade?
\par Answer: }{\b Saladin}{
\par 
\par 2. He achieved a wide audience with his Lanny Budd series, eleven contemporary historical novels beginning with }{\i World\rquote s End}{, that revolve around an antifascist hero. He also wrote about the controversi
al Sacco and Vanzetti trial in his 1928 book }{\i Boston}{, as well as the Teapot Dome Scandal in his 1927 book }{\i Oil! }{
He is most famous for his sixth novel, inspired by one of his newspaper assignments and published at his own expense after several publishers rejected it. FTP, name this American naturalist author of }{\i The Jungle}{.
\par Answer: Upton }{\b Sinclair}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{3. Originally called Lexiko, it was designed by unemployed architect Alfred Butts. Later renamed to Criss Cross Words, it was sold and trademarked to James Brunot, wh
o converted an abandoned schoolhouse in Connecticut into a factory that created it. One key aspect of the game lay in Alfred Butts' cryptographic analysis of the New York Times to determine the frequency of each letter in the English alphabet. FTP, what i
s this popular word game believed to be found in one out of every three American homes?
\par Answer: }{\b Scrabble}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{4. Modest Mussorgsky\rquote s }{\i Pictures at an Exhibition}{ was originally a piano piece before it was orchestrated by this person. Because of the tonal color, ha
rmonies, and mood of much of his music, he is often associated with the French impressionistic composer Claude Debussy. His impressionistic leanings can be heard in his orchestral suite }{\i Rhapsodie espagnole}{, as well as his ballet }{\i 
Pavane for a Dead Infanta}{. FTP, name this French composer of the celebrated orchestral piece }{\i Bolero}{.
\par Answer: Maurice }{\b Ravel}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{5. In one myth, she joins a snake and a dangerous bird in a }{\i Huluppu}{ tree in order to prevent the goddess Inanna from cutting it down for furniture, only to be chased away by Gilgamesh.  Depending on translation, she is referred to as \ldblquote 
the screech owl\rdblquote  or \ldblquote the night hag\rdblquote  in Isaiah 34:14, and in Arabic mythology she is Satan\rquote s wife, while in \ldblquote Eden Bower\rdblquote  Dante Gabriel Rossetti makes the serpent an instrument of he
r vengeance.  FTP, name this first wife of Adam.
\par Answer: }{\b Lilith}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{6. Commissioned in June of 1944, it was the last battleship the US navy completed. President Truman was particularly fond of the ship, not only because it was christened by his daughter Marga
ret, but also because it was named for his home state. By 1950, it was the US Navy's only active battleship. FTP, what is this ship, best known for the September 2, 1945 site of the Japanese surrender?
\par Answer: USS }{\b Missouri}{
\par 
\par 7. Confirmed to high precision by Hungarian physicist Roland E\'f6tv\'f6s, this principle dates back to Galileo\rquote 
s observation that the period of a pendulum is independent of its mass.  Although it does not apply to rotating systems or to systems in which the gravitational field varies consider
ably, it was the basis for predictions of such phenomena as the gravitational red shift.  FTP, name this principle important in general relativity which maintains that inertial mass and gravitational mass are equivalent.
\par Answer: Principle of }{\b Equivalence}{
\par 
\par 8
. Privately published in 1893 under the pseudonym of Johnston Smith, it was first published under the author's real name in 1896. Set in Rum Alley, a slum district, it tells of Jimmie Johnson and his sister, the ill-treated children of a brutal father and
 drunken mother. FTP, identify this Stephen Crane story in which the girl drowns herself after becoming a prostitute.
\par Answer: }{\b Maggie}{: A Girl of the Streets
\par 
\par 9. It is an annual award consisting of $25,000, financially supported by Lucent Technologies. The 19
98 winner was Jim Gray, for his work on transactions. Previous winners include Douglas Engelbart, Ivan Sutherland, Niklaus Wirth, and Dennis Ritchie. FTP, what is this technical award given for contributions of lasting and major importance to the computer
 field, named after one of the founders of theoretical computer science?
\par Answer: A. M. }{\b Turing}{ Award
\par 
\par 10. He began his congressional career as a Warhawk, urging President James Madison towards war with Britain in 1812. After serving as a delegate to the peac
e talks in Ghent, he returned to Congress to propose an activist state that would promote the creation of a national, interdependent economy through the establishment of a national bank, protective tariff, and a network of internal improvements, collectiv
ely known as the \ldblquote American System\rdblquote . FTP, name this American politician instrumental in the passage of the Missouri Compromise and the Compromise of 1850.
\par Answer: Henry }{\b Clay}{
\par 
\par 11. A visionary and hero of science, he died in 1930 in Greenland as he attempted to establish a mid-ice observatory. For decades to come, his ideas were dismissed as the left-field notions of a crackpot. FTP, who is this person who, in 1915, in his book 
}{\i The Origin of the Continents and Oceans}{, proposed the idea that the continents had once been a single mass, which he called Pangaea?
\par Answer: Alfred }{\b Wegener}{
\par 
\par 12. It is a small medal hanging from a purple ribbon in the shape of a small Maltese Cross, made of bronze taken from Russian guns captured at Sevastopol during the Crimean War. The f
irst 62 recipients were awarded in a ceremony held in Hyde Park in 1857. The Queen stated that it should only be awarded to those who "perform acts of conspicuous courage and bravery". FTP, what is this decoration, Britain's highest award for gallantry an
d heroism in battle, named for the Queen that first awarded it?
\par Answer: }{\b Victoria Cross}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{13. One character by this name is a sea-captain and friend to Viola\rquote s brother Sebastian in }{\i Twelfth Night}{.  Another plots with still another character named Sebastian to 
kill Alonso and is the usurping Duke of Milan and brother of Prospero in }{\i The Tempest}{.  FTP, give this name associated with the most lines of any name in Shakespeare\rquote 
s plays, including those spoken by the friend of Bassanio and title character in }{\i The Merchant of Venice}{.
\par Answer: }{\b Antonio}{
\par 
\par 14. General Grant was confident that the Confederates would remain at Corinth, and thus failed to order adequate defenses. No defensive entrenchments, no cavalry patrols, and few picket lines were established. The battle\rquote s na
me came from a simple log meeting house a few miles from the river, and it is ironically named for the Biblical village meaning \ldblquote place of peace.\rdblquote 
 The Confederates under Beauregard succeeded in a surprise attack, but on the next day thirteen thousand Union and eleven thousand Confederate soldiers were dead. FTP, what was this bloody battle that took place on April 6, 1862?
\par Answer:}{\b  Shiloh }{(prompt on Pittsburgh Landing)
\par 
\par 15. The three layers of this organ are the epithelium, the stroma, and the endothelium, an
d diseases that can affect it include lattice dystrophy, herpes, and shingles.  When the organ is damaged, a patch called a leukoma may form on it, but because few blood vessels lead to it a transplant may be performed with minimal risk of rejection.  FTP
, name this most-transplanted organ in the body whose malfunction can cause astigmatism and which functions as a protective layer for the pupil and iris.
\par Answer: }{\b cornea}{
\par 
\par 16. This play, set on the estate of Pyotr Sorin, features a subplot in which Masha, the
 daughter of the family steward, marries Semyon Medvedenko in spite of her love for the male lead.  Meanwhile, the writer Boris Trigorin has an affair with Nina Zarechnaya, and two years later Nina rejects the advances of Konstantin Treplev, driving him t
o suicide.  FTP, name this play by Anton Chekhov whose title refers to a bird killed by Treplev.
\par Answer: The }{\b Sea Gull}{ or }{\b Chaika}{
\par 
\par 17. The Samkhya school of philosophy has explained this process by assuming the existence of a \ldblquote subtle\rdblquote  body consisting of such functions as consciousness and breath which persists after the death of the \ldblquote gross\rdblquote 
 body, or }{\i sthula}{.  Literally \ldblquote the running around,\rdblquote  it ends when one finds release, or }{\i moksa}{, from the bonds of karma.  FTP, name this Jainist, Buddhist, and Hindu concept of the cycle of death and rebirth.
\par Answer: }{\b Samsara}{
\par 
\par 18. This artist\rquote s treatise, }{\i I Comentarii}{, published in 1447, gave a history of ancient art and discussed the author\rquote s admiration for certain painters of Siena.  He created large bronze statues of saints Ste
phen, Matthew, and John the Baptist for the Or San Michele in Florence while he was still working on another project for which he had been chosen over six other artists, including Brunelleschi, in 1402.  FTP, name this sculptor of the }{\i 
Gates of Paradise}{ at the Baptistery of the Cathedral of Florence.
\par Answer: Lorenzo }{\b Ghiberti}{
\par 
\par 19. One of the more widely spoken languages in this country is Sranan, a lingua franca incorporating elements of English, Spanish, Dutch, and Hebrew, and in 1665 the country became home
 to the first synagogue in the Western Hemisphere. The abolition of slavery in 1863 led to a massive influx of workers from China, Java, and India, and East Indians now comprise the country\rquote 
s largest ethnic group. FTP, name this former Dutch colony in South America with capital at Paramaribo.
\par Answer: }{\b Suriname}{
\par 
\par 20. When this chemical reacts with acetaldehyde and calcium hydroxide, it forms pentaerythritol, a relative of the explosive PETN, while reaction with ammonia yields methenamine, used as a urinary ant
iseptic.  Produced principally by the vapor-phase oxidation of methanol, in its pure form it is a colorless, flammable gas which irritates the mucus membranes, and it is used widely in the tanning industry and as a disinfectant.  FTP, name this compound w
ith chemical formula HOCH, also used as an enbalming agent, which is the simplest of the aldehydes.
\par Answer: }{\b Formaldehyde}{ (accept }{\b methanal}{ (not \ldblquote methanol\rdblquote ))
\par 
\par 21. He worked as a law professor in Berlin in 1892, before receiving an appointment as a professor o
f political economy at the University of Freiburg in 1894.  The iron cage, the routinization of charisma, and the rationality of means and ends are just a few of the concepts introduced in his sociological essays.  FTP, identify this German sociologist wh
o wrote }{\i The Protestant Ethic}{ and }{\i The Spirit of Capitalism}{.
\par Answer: Max }{\b Weber}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{22. Was he barrister Montague Druitt? Was he the painter Walter Sickert? What is known is that in the poverty stricken Whitechapel area, Mary Ann Nichols, Ann Chapman, Catherine E
ddowes, Elizabeth Stride, and Mary Kelly were all prostitutes brutally disemboweled. FTP, what is this nickname supplied in grisly letters to the press by a notorious, but so far unidentified, serial killer in late 19}{\super th}{ century London?
\par Answer: }{\b Jack the Ripper}{
\par 
\par 23. When this range is combined with the Himalayan range, they hold nearly all of the world\rquote s fifty tallest peaks and a large percentage of the world\rquote 
s hundred tallest peaks. FTP, what is this range that holds K-2 or Mount Godwin Austen, the second tallest mountain in the world?
\par Answer: }{\b Karakoram}{
\par 
\par 24. In 1996, this senator became the first lawmaker to demand research of the Y2K problem, and more recently he and Bob Kerrey proposed legislation which would use private retirement accounts to complement so
cial security.  He will retire after the 2000 election, and some anticipate that the candidates to replace him will include Hillary Clinton and Rudolph Giuliani.  FTP, name this senior Senator from New York.
\par Answer: Daniel Patrick }{\b Moynihan}{
\par 
\par 25. Three conse
cutive winters will follow each other with no summers in between.  Two wolves will devour the sun and the moon; a crowing rooster will awaken the dead; and the Midgard serpent will start writhing toward dry land.  FTP, these event will take place when wha
t apocalypse of Norse mythology occurs?
\par Answer: }{\b Ragnarok}{ or }{\b Gotterdamerung}{
\par \page }{\b 1999 ACF Regionals 
\par Questions by Berkeley A  (Jason Hong, Jon Pennington, Mike Usher)
\par Bonuses}{
\par 
\par 1. Identify the following related court cases, ten points each.
\par 1. As a liberal, Clarence Darrow defended this person against contempt charges in 1894 resulting from the Pullman Strike.
\par Answer: Eugene }{\b Debs}{
\par 2. Darrow reemerged in the headlines in 1924 with this murder case, where his novel exploitation of psychiatric evidence averted a death sentence. For ten, name the defendants of this case.
\par Answer: }{\b Leopold-Loeb}{ murder case
\par 3. In 1925, Darrow defended this Tennessee teacher who taught Darwin's theory of evolution.
\par Answer: John }{\b Scopes}{
\par 
\par 2. Answer the following about a system of satellites recently completed.
\par 1. It is comprised of a constellation of 66 satellites in low earth orbit, about 420 nautical miles above the earth's surface. It was designed for use as a worldwide voice communication and paging system. For ten points, what is this syste
m named after an element?
\par Answer: }{\b Iridium}{
\par 2. For another ten, what is the primary company behind the Iridium system, also known for its pagers, cellular phones, and microchips?
\par Answer: }{\b Motorola}{
\par 3. Iridium was so named because it was supposed to have the same number of satellites as the atomic number of iridium. For five points, how many satellites was Iridium supposed to have?
\par Answer: }{\b 77}{
\par 4. For a final five, given that Iridium will only have 66 satellites operational, what element should Iridium theoretically be renamed to, lying between Terbium and Holmium?
\par Answer: }{\b dysprosium}{
\par 
\par 3. Identify the following deserts for 10 points each.
\par 1. Hemmed in by the Andes, it has the distinction of being the driest place on Earth. In 1971 it received rain for the first time in four hundred years.
\par Answer: }{\b Atacama}{ Desert
\par 2. Located on the Atlantic coast of Africa in Namibia, it is the home of the world\rquote s tallest sand dune, a crescent-shaped dune.
\par Answer: }{\b Namib}{ Desert 
\par 3. It stretches from the Nile to the Red Sea, and is located in northeastern Sudan
\par Answer: }{\b Nubian}{ Desert
\par 
\par 4. Identify the following works of German literature for 10 points each.
\par 1. The protagonist, K., is frustrated in his efforts to gain entrance to the title abode.
\par Answer: The }{\b Castle}{\ul 
\par }{2. Oskar Matzerath is so disgusted with the way that adults behave that he decides to stop himself from growing when he is only three years old.
\par Answer: the }{\b Tin Drum}{
\par 3. In this mystical and futuristic novel, which takes place in the 25th century, philosophers and spiritual leaders engage in a strange intellectual pastime that attempts to synthesize religion, art, science, and all other forms of human knowledge.
\par Answer: }{\b Magister Ludi}{: the Glass Bead Game
\par 
\par 5. Identify the following techniques used in painting, 10 points each.
\par 1. The application of oil paint in quantities that make it stand out from the surface of the canvas, used to create texture in such works as van Gogh\rquote s }{\i Field with Cypress Trees}{.
\par Answer: }{\b Impasto}{
\par 2. The use of extensive gradations of light and darkness, associated with Rembrandt and many Romantic painters.
\par Answer: }{\b Chiaroscuro}{
\par 3. The extreme form of chiaroscuro used by such 17th century Italians as Caravaggio in which the figures are shrouded in darkness but a light source such as a candle sets off the scene.
\par Answer: }{\b Tenebrism}{ or }{\b Tenebrismo}{
\par 
\par 6. Answer the following questions about people that have popularized science at one time or another FTP each.
\par 1. Previously working as a professor of astronomy at Cornell University, he wrote about science in the Pulitzer-prize winning book }{\i The Dragons of Eden}{. For five, name this recently deceased scientist.
\par Answer: Carl }{\b Sagan}{
\par 2. }{\i What Do You Care What Other People Think?}{ and }{\i Six Easy Pieces}{ are two books by this Nobel winning physicist and trickster.
\par Answer: Richard }{\b Feynman}{
\par 3. He had a book called }{\b Kosmos}{ (with a \lquote K\rquote 
), in which he tried to give a cosmic view of the earth. For fifteen, name this 18th and 19th century naturalist and explorer that explored the Orinoco and studied ocean currents off the western coast of South America.
\par Answer: Friedrich }{\b Humboldt}{
\par 
\par 7. You know what? Men suck, or at least these women thought so. Identify these fictional female characters that really hated men FTP each.
\par 1. Winning her hand requires the suitor to answer three riddles correctly or losing one's head. For ten, name this title character from Giacomo Puccini's last opera.
\par Answer: }{\b Turandot}{
\par 2. The daughter of Iasus and Clymene, she refused to marry any suitor unless he could first defeat her in a race. In some legends, it is Melanion that overcomes here, in others it is Hippomenes.
\par Answer: }{\b Atalanta}{
\par 3. She was jilted on her wedding day and has brought up her ward, Estella, to hate men. For ten, name this character in Dickens\rquote  }{\i Great Expectations}{.
\par Answer: Miss }{\b Havisham}{
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following international languages, FTP each:
\par 1. By far the most widely-spoken international language, invented by Ludwick Zamenhof in 1887, using words derived from roots common to Romance languages.
\par Answer: }{\b Esperanto}{
\par 2. The simplified form of Latin initially developed in 1903 by Giuseppe Peano and also known as Latino Sine Flexione.
\par Answer: }{\b Interlingua}{
\par 3. The reduced form of English with a vocabulary of 850 words developed in 1932 by Charles Kay Ogden.
\par Answer: }{\b Basic English}{
\par 
\par 9. Identify the following works of Willa Cather, FTPE:
\par 1.  Her first novel was about an engineer torn between love for his wife and an actress he had known in his youth.
\par Answer: }{\b Alexander\rquote s Bridge}{
\par 2.  Her 1918 novel consisting of the loosely-structured memories of Jim Burden about his Nebraska upbringing and Bohemian girl whom he loved.
\par Answer: }{\b My Antonia}{
\par 3.  Her Pulitzer Prize winning novel about Nebraska farm boy Claude Wheeler.
\par Answer: }{\b One of Ours}{
\par 
\par 10. Name these early philosophers, 5-10-15.
\par 5. Regarded by some as the founder of Greek philosophy, he made several discoveries in geometry and astronomy, even predicting an eclipse. For five, name this person who believed that all things were made of water.
\par Answer: }{\b Thales}{
\par 10. A pupil of Thales, he was the first Greek to make use of the sundial. He also believed that everything was made out of a formless substance called apeiron, meaning \ldblquote infinite.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b Anaximander}{\ul 
\par }{15.  One of the Chinese }{\i Four Books}{ is named for this philosopher living from 372-289 BC, who advanced the doctrine of the goodness of man\rquote s nature and the necessity of a virtuous and benevolent king to bring order to the world.
\par Answer: }{\b Mencius}{ or }{\b Meng-tzu}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{11. Answer the following about early European explorers FTP each.
\par 1. With his son Sebastian, he received a commission from England\rquote s King Henry VII to find a new trade route to Asia. Sailing aboard the ship }{\i Matthew}{, he reached present day Newfoundland.
\par Answer: John }{\b Cabot }{or Giovanni }{\b Caboto}{
\par 2. The distinction of being the first European to set foot on what would become the United States belongs to this person, who had earlier conquered Puerto Rico. He was investigating rumors of a large island north of Cuba when he did so.
\par Answer: Juan }{\b Ponce de Leon}{
\par 3. Sailing for the French in 1524, he reached land at Cape Fear in the Carolinas, and sailed north to New York Bay and Naragansett Bay.
\par Answer: Giovanni de }{\b Verrazano}{
\par 
\par 12. For 10 points each, identify the Simpsons characters.
\par 1. Name }{\b either}{ of the two human-eating space aliens that periodically make guest appearances
\par Answer: }{\b Kodos}{ or }{\b Kang}{
\par 2. This \ldblquote slack-jawed yokel\rdblquote  can be heard saying things like \ldblquote Hey Ma! Look at this pointy-haired girl!\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b Cletus}{ the slack-jawed yokel
\par 3. Even though he has a walking cane, a huge overbite, and thick eyeglasses, this old-timer is often seen riving big trucks
\par Answer: Hans }{\b Moleman}{
\par 
\par 13. Given a unit of measurement, describe what it measures for 10 each. For example, if I said \ldblquote meter,\rdblquote  you would say \ldblquote length\rdblquote .
\par 1. Weber\tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Magnetic Flux}{
\par 2. Poise\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: Coefficient of }{\b Viscosity}{
\par 3. Henry\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Inductance}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{14. Identify the following about the Vietnam war, 10 points each.
\par 1. This was a French stronghold that was overrun in 1954, leading to the Geneva conference and French withdrawal.
\par Answer: }{\b Dienbienphu}{
\par 2. Name }{\b either}{ of the two ships supposedly attacked in 1964, leading to the Gulf of Tonkin resolution.
\par Answer: }{\b Maddox}{ or }{\b C. Turner Joy}{
\par 3. This was a strategic hamlet that General Westmoreland had heavily fortified as a future staging point for attacks on the Ho Chi Minh trail. Disastrously attacked by the Viet Cong during the Tet Offensive, it was ironically abandoned one year later.

\par Answer: }{\b Khe Sanh}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{15. Old Testament prophets were an optimistic bunch, weren't they? Identify the following, ten points each.
\par 1. The last of the great prophets, he saw Israel redeemed in a New Covenant, which he foresaw in the famous figure of the Valley of Dry Bones.
\par Answer: }{\b Ezekiel}{
\par 2. He preached in the late seventh and early sixth century BC that Israel would be punished for idolatry. His prophecies were fulfilled by the fall of Jerusalem to the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar.
\par Answer: }{\b Jeremiah}{
\par 3. This longest of the prophetic books collects the writings of poets of several periods. He warns that the southern kingdom of Judah is threatened not only by its own sins but by the attacks of
 neighboring Assyria. His next prophecies come from the time when the people of Judah were in exile in Babylon.
\par Answer: }{\b Isaiah
\par 
\par }{16. Answer the following about William the Conqueror.
\par 10. William the Conqueror was a distant relative of what English king that ruled from 1042-1066?
\par Answer: }{\b Edward the Confessor}{
\par 5. William claimed the English thrown that had been taken by this person, the country\rquote s most powerful Anglo-Saxon nobleman.
\par Answer: }{\b Harold II}{, or }{\b Harold Godwin}{
\par 5. The Battle of Hastings is depicted on what famous and very long tapestry?
\par Answer: }{\b Bayeux }{Tapestry
\par 10. On what day in 1066 was William the Conqueror crowned king?
\par Answer: }{\b Christmas}{ Day or }{\b December 25}{
\par 
\par 17. Answer the following about }{\i To Kill a Mockingbird}{.
\par 5. The story is told from the point of view of what six-year-old?
\par Answer: }{\b Jean}{ Louise Finch (or \ldblquote }{\b Scout}{;\rdblquote  Finch by itself will not suffice) 
\par 5. \ldblquote Scout\rdblquote  is the daughter of what white lawyer?
\par Answer: }{\b Atticus Finch}{
\par 10. Atticus Finch is hired to defend what black man accused of raping a white woman?
\par Answer: }{\b Tom Robinson}{ (accept }{\b either}{ Tom or Robinson)
\par 10. This is the man that saves the children from Bob Ewell at the end.
\par Answer: Arthur }{\b Radley}{ or Boo}{\b  Radley}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{18. Name the opera given a short description for ten points, and the composer for five.
\par 1. 10. Based on Alexandre Dumas's }{\i La Dame aux Cam\'e9lias}{, it tells of sickly Violetta and Alfredo's adoration of her.
\par       5. Giuseppe Verdi
\par Answer: La }{\b Traviata}{
\par 2. 10.  This light-hearted operetta tells the story of a bourgeois named Eisenstein, his wife Rosalinda, and her former lover Alfred, as well as a costume which gives it its name.
\par       5.  Johann Strauss
\par Answer: Die }{\b Fledermaus }{or The }{\b Bat}{
\par 3. 10.  Count Almaviva loves the young, rich and beautiful Rosina, the ward and intended wife of strict Dr. Bartolo in this 1816 opera.
\par       5.  Gioacchino Rossini
\par Answer: The }{\b Barber of Seville}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{19. Identify these \ldblquote G\rdblquote  terms from biology FTP each.
\par 1. This class of plant hormones discovered by Kurosawa elongates stems in some dwarf plants.
\par Answer: }{\b gibberellins}{
\par 2. This specialized epidermal cell regulates the size of the stoma of a leaf.
\par Answer: }{\b guard}{ cell
\par 3. This is a chamber of an animal\rquote s digestive tract which is specialized for grinding food.
\par Answer: }{\b gizzard}{
\par 
\par 20. Answer the following about the Truman doctrine FTP each.
\par 1. Within one, in what year did American advisers and military aid flow to Greece and Turkey under the Truman Doctrine?
\par Answer: }{\b 1947}{ (accept }{\b 1946}{ or }{\b 1948}{)
\par 2. The theoretical underpinnings of the Truman doctrine came about in the influential journal Foreign Affairs, written under the pseudonym X. For ten, who was this State Department official?
\par Answer: George }{\b Kennan}{
\par 3. George Kennan introduced this pivotal concept, which essentially meant using American might to counter Soviet pressure wherever it developed. For ten, name this term.
\par Answer: }{\b Containment}{
\par 
\par 21. Identify the following phyla of plants, 10 points each.
\par 1. Native to China, it is cultivated worldwide. A tall deciduous tree, it is the only living descendant of a once-large group.
\par Answer: }{\b Ginkgo}{phyta
\par 2. Small plants living in moist habitats, they reproduce by spores and include liverworts and hornworts.
\par Answer: }{\b Bryophyta}{ or }{\b Bryophyte}{s
\par 3. They are the dominant land vegetation of the earth, including over 230,000 species.
\par Answer: }{\b Angiospermophyta}{ }{\b or Magnoliophyta}{ or }{\b Angiosperm}{s
\par 
\par 22. Identify the following battles of the Napoleonic Wars, FTP each:
\par 1. The December 2, 1805 battle in Moravia also known as the Battle of the Three Emperors and considered one of Napoleon\rquote s greatest victories.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b Austerlitz}{
\par 2. The June 14, 1800 battle in northern Italy which gave Napoleon control of much of Lombardy and secured his civilian and military authority in Paris.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b Marengo}{
\par 3. Napoleon\rquote s narrow victory on September 7, 1812 in Russia which allowed him to take Moscow a week later.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b Borodino}{
\par 
\par 23. No packet from Berkeley would be complete without a question about drugs and its aftereffects. Answer the following about Berkeley's favorite pasttime, ten points each.
\par 1. }{\i Lophophora Willimsii}{ is also known as this, a cactus used by Native American Indians for spiritual and physical well-being.
\par Answer: }{\b Peyote}{
\par 2. A combination of two drugs, millions of people had been or were taking it when the Mayo clinic reported an unusually high incidence of 
heart valve malfunction among users in July 1997. Weeks after that, under pressure from the FDA, drugs products containing it were removed from the market. 
\par Answer: }{\b Fen-Phen}{ (or }{\b phentermine}{ }{\b and}{ }{\b fenfluramine}{)
\par 3. It is a neurotransmitter that inhibits things
 as mood, anxiety, and sleep. Levels of it are elevated in schizophrenia, delusions, hallucinations, and withdrawal. Its shortage is believed to be the main cause of depression, sleep disorders, obesity, and addiction.
\par Answer: }{\b Seratonin}{
\par 
\par 24. Answer the following about space stations, 5-10-15.
\par 5.  It was sent into space in 1973, but it hosted just three crews before it was abandoned in 1974. It fell to Earth five years later, killing a cow in Australia upon landing.
\par Answer: }{\b Skylab}{
\par 10. The Soviet Union launched the world's first space station in 1971. What was the name of it?
\par Answer: }{\b Salyut 1}{
\par 15. In 1923, this Romanian was the first to use the term "space station" for his wheel-like facility that would help launch astronauts to the moon and Mars. A class of Federation starships used on scientific research missions is named for him.
\par Answer: Hermann }{\b Oberth}{
\par 
\par 25. Identify the following figures in 17th century New England, FTP each:
\par 1. The first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, who during his 12 terms between 1629 and 1648 saw religious conflicts with Roger Williams and Anne Hutchinson.
\par Answer: John }{\b Winthrop}{
\par 2. The governor of the Plymouth Colony for thirty years between 1621 and 1656, known for his religious tolerance and for nurturing democratic institutions such as the town meeting.
\par Answer: William }{\b Bradford}{
\par 3. The English captain who founded New Hampshire in 1623.
\par Answer: John }{\b Mason}{
\par 
\par 26. Identify the following about the Bay of Pigs invasion, ten points each.
\par 1. For five each, in what month and what year did the Bay of Pigs invasion occur?
\par Answer: }{\b April, 1961}{
\par 2. The legendary CIA director and a holdover from the Eisenhower era, he dreamed up the operation.
\par Answer: Allan }{\b Dulles}{
\par 3. This was the name for the force of 1400 anti-Castro Cuban exiles
\par Answer: La }{\b Brigada}{
\par }}