{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive footnote reference;}{\*\cs16 \additive 
\i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1931185260\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid56318416}{\list\listtemplateid-857338542\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid96677186}{\list\listtemplateid-2140485266\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid410739956}{\list\listtemplateid-10294452\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid696662109}{\list\listtemplateid-1409676638\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid963658027}{\list\listtemplateid1605157542\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1199078419}{\list\listtemplateid373751644\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1841500787}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid56318416\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1199078419\listoverridecount0\ls2}
{\listoverride\listid1841500787\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid410739956\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid96677186\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid696662109\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid963658027
\listoverridecount0\ls7}}{\info{\title ACF REGIONALS}{\author Earl Cahill}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min7}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min7}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords4703}{\nofchars26808}
{\*\company Brigham Young University}{\nofcharsws32922}{\vern89}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\transmf\truncatefontheight\subfontbysize\sprsbsp\wpjst\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20 {1999 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs20 Questions by BYU A
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20 {Tossups
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par 1. He lives at 27A Wimpole Street with his housekeeper, Mrs. Pearce, as a part-time \ldblquote Miltonic poet\rdblquote  and developer of the famous \ldblquote Universal Alphabet,\rdblquote  which includes 130 vowel sounds.  His creator was so upset 
with producers slapping a happy ending on the play that a special afterword was added, confirming that his famous charge left him alone with Colonel Pickering in order to marry Freddy Eynsford-Hill.  FTP name this phonetics professor and confirmed bachelo
r, the title character of Shaw\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Pygmalion.}{\fs20 
\par Answer: Professor Henry }{\b\fs20 Higgins}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 2. A movement of a work written as incidental music for a play in 1876, its composer said that it should evoke images of \ldblquote cow manure and super-nationalism.\rdblquote   The increasing tempo a
nd volume within helps evoke the majesty of its royal subject, the ruler of the Dovre-Trolls. It is both the tune that Peter Lorre whistles that gets him caught in M, and serves as the background music for some of Dazzling Dunks and Basketball Bloopers. F
TP, name this instantly recognizable work written for Ibsen\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Peer Gynt}{\fs20 , composed by Edvard Grieg.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 In the Hall of the Mountain King}{\fs20  (Be nice and prompt on \ldblquote Peer Gynt\rdblquote  before it\rquote s mentioned)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {3. It included seven articles, and was signed by 49 men.  Among its provisions was an outright ban on the foreign importation of slaves, a bicameral legislature, a line item veto, and a single 6\_
year term for presidents and vice\_presidents.  FTP, what document was signed in Montgomery, Alabama, on March 11, 1861, finally giving a name to nation previously called Alleghenia, Chicora, and the Republic of Washington?
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: the }{\b\fs20 Confederate Consitution}{\fs20  (accept equivalents)
\par 
\par 4. Warning: two answers required.  Jonathan Swift, in }{\i\fs20 Gulliver\rquote s Travels}{\fs20 , had his Laputian astronomers know of their existence fully 150 years before their real discovery, and Voltaire borrowed this idea for his }{\i\fs20 
Micromegas}{\fs20 .  When American Asaph Hall found them for real in 1877, he found that their orbital periods were almost exactly what Swift had 
predicted.  Named for Greek demigods of fear and panic, they are both probably captured asteroids.  FTP name these two small moons of Mars.
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Deimos}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Phobos
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 5. His work has been called a last gasp of French Romanticism.  This economist\rquote s son from Marseille published his first book of poetry, }{\i\fs20 Les Musardises}{\fs20 
, and then turned to drama, with successful plays like }{\i\fs20 The Red Glove, The Romantics}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 L\rquote Aiglon}{\fs20 , about Napoleon\rquote s imprisoned son. He is best known, however, for fictionalizing the life of a 17}{
\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century writer and swordsman.  FTP name the author of }{\i\fs20 Cyrano de Bergerac}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Edmond-Eugene }{\b\fs20 Rostand}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. Though it was supplanted as a state capital early in the 19th century, this city has remained popular for its huge 4th of July galas and patrioti
c celebrations.  After the Civil War, however, it faltered economically and the impoverished citizens destroyed or failed to maintain the historic buildings.  That all changed with a town meeting in 1928 where the residents agreed to accept help in restor
ing the town from Rockefeller. FTP, name this East Coast tourist attraction and home of the College of William and Mary.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Williamsburg}{\fs20 , VA
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 7. On January 6, 1907, a one room nursery school opened its door in the Roman slum of San Lorenzo for children
 whose parents had to work in the daytime and would otherwise abandon them.  Though the school had no trained teachers, it had a collection of puzzles, games and a qualified physician with strange ideas.  These ideas, such as "children hate sweets and lov
e silence," and \ldblquote experience is preferable to lecture learning\rdblquote  drew sharp criticism from all sides.  FTP, name this doctor who published a book in 1910 about her teaching method.
\par Answer: Maria }{\b\fs20 Montessori}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 8. This man\rquote s intersection theorem states that in a complete metric space, any nested sequence of closed sets whose diameters approach zero contains a unique intersection point. His \ldblquote paradox\rdblquote 
 arises from the assumption that there is an all-inclusive infinite set, and his ternary set is created by removing t
he open middle third of the interval [0,1], and then recursively removing the middle third of the remaining intervals. FTP, identify this German mathematician, whose diagonal theorem can be used to show that the real numbers are uncountable.
\par Answer: Georg Ferdinand Ludwig Philip }{\b\fs20 Cantor}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 9. This mythical figure's name means "magnolia," and was probably based on a real soldier from the Central Plains region during the 5th century.  According to a famous ballad, "In the East Market she buys a spirited horse, I
n the West Market she buys a saddle, In the South Market she buys a bridle, In the North Market she buys a long whip" and goes to battle the Tartars at Mount Yen.  FTP name this legendary Hsui dynasty woman who saved her father's life by dressing as a man
 and joining the Khan's army. 
\par Answer: Fa or Hua }{\b\fs20 Mulan}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi2160\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 10. She is usually identified as Bice (bee-chay), the daughter of a noble Florentine family who married Simone de Bardi and died young in 1290.  At the age of 8, she first met the man who would dedicat
e his best work to her, as when she first appears with the words \ldblquote Weep not at Virgil\rquote s going; weep not yet, for soon another sword shall give thee cause to weep,\rdblquote 
 in Canto XXX of Purgatorio.  FTP name the woman thought to be of the Portinari family, subject of }{\i\fs20 La Vita Nuova }{\fs20 and lifelong love of Dante Alighieri.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Beatrice}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 11. It was developed in the last century to drain excess fluid, and was used in the 1930's to detect the blood disease erythroblastis fetalis.  Today it also measures alphafetoprote
in in order to predict spina bifida, and can detect neural tube defect, Rh problems, Tay Sachs, Down syndrome, and the sex of the fetus.  FTP identify this common procedure, in which fluid is extracted from the uterine sac via a long hollow needle.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 amniocentesis}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 12. Nietzsche called it \ldblquote the most uncanniest of guest,\rdblquote 
 and said it was the result of a faulty value-system turning back on itself and its human creators, ultimately devaluing itself and causing an abyss-like experience.  Seen in works like Dostoevsky\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Possessed}{\fs20 
, it is the general phenomenon of human values having no evocatory power, in that questions about meaning not only fail to yield answers that are trustworthy or in the truth, but in addition lead to a void of senseless silence.  FTP,
 name this philosophical idea, whose name comes from the Latin for \ldblquote nothingness.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Nihilism}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {13. It was formulated in 1820, when a Lyonnese professor observed Oersted\rquote s discovery that the needle on a compass would line up perpendicular to a current
-carrying wire.  Although it produces a very difficult equation, in cases of high symmetry it can be much easier to solve than the Biot-Savart Law.  FTP, name the law which states that the path integral of a magnetic field around any closed path is propor
tional to the current enclosed by the path, named for its French discoverer.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 Ampere}{\fs20 \rquote s Law
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 14. In the 9}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century, it was united by Jayavarman II, and Sanskrit literature flourished under the enlightened court of him and his successors, who tolerate
d both Buddhism and Siva worship.  This empire fought repeated wars against the Annamese and the Chams, finally falling to the Thais in 1434, after which its capital was transferred from the stone temples of the Angkor region to Phnom Penh.  FTP name this
 ancient Cambodian empire, which later lent its name to an infamous political party.
\par Answer: the }{\b\fs20 Khmer}{\fs20  empire
\par 
\par 15. It is a 128-mile-long limestone archipelago, contained mostly within Monroe County.  The northernmost is called Virginia; the southernmost Log
gerhead.  In between, Garden is home to a large lighthouse, the Islamorada World War I monument is on Upper Matecume, and the undersea John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park is on Largo.  FTP name this site of the world\rquote 
s longest over-water highway, the Gulf of Mexico island chain just south of Miami.
\par Answer: the }{\b\fs20 Florida Keys}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {16. This tiny 1767 work is officially entitled \ldblquote The Happy Hazards of\rdblquote  the title object.  It was commissioned by the Baron de-Saint Julien, who asked to be painted in a position to see h
is mistress\rquote  legs, \ldblquote and even more of her if you wish to enliven your picture.\rdblquote 
  The mistress is at center, kicking off her left shoe and being pushed by a smiling bishop.  FTP name this rococo garden scene, a masterpiece of Jean-Honore Fragonard.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:}{\i\fs20  }{\fs20 The }{\b\fs20 Swing}{\i\fs20 
\par }{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {
17. Also called the morse, it is the sole surviving member of family Odobenidae.  Formerly found as far south as Massachusetts, hunting in the last century has greatly reduced its population.  The Pacific variety is the world\rquote s largest pinniped, 
and all types live in noisy, sociable groups of 100 or more.  FTP, name this 12-foot sea mammal, easily recognized by its long ivory tusks.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 walrus}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {18. This phrase helps to understand the often-difficult political system of Republican Rome. Though 
the consuls were technically in supreme command, they had a one-year term and were responsible to the Senate, which felt itself to be a popularly based body.  It was a mantra chanted in battle by the troops of Julius Caesar and came to be a creed as well 
as a war cry.  Taken literally, it is the authority through which all Roman government was implemented.  FTP, give the phrase represented on the legions' battle flags by the abbreviation SPQR.  
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: the }{\b\fs20 Senate and People of Rome}{\fs20  or}{\b\fs20  }{\fs20 equivalents ; also accept }{\b\fs20 Senatus Populusque Romanus}{\fs20 , or }{\b\fs20 SPQR}{\fs20  before it is read.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {19. Its author said of it, "It's the whole story.  It's all my politics."  Its title sacrifice is described as "many deeds of war to the land vaguely realizing westward," and describes that land \ldblquote 
such as she was, such as she would become.\rdblquote 
  Written in 1942, it was not well known until January 20, 1961, when the poet read it for John Kennedy's inauguration.  FTP name the poem which begins "The land was ours before we were the land's," written by Robert Frost.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Gift Outright}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 20. He is based on the title character of Lewis Foster's short story \ldblquote The Gentleman from Montana.\rdblquote   The son of a newspaper editor, he edits his own paper, }{\i\fs20 Boys Stuff}{\fs20 
, and his pet project, aided by his secretary Clarissa Saunders, is a 200\_acre boys' camp on Willet Creek.  Unfortunately, Willet Creek is the site of a pork\_
barrel dam project sponsored by corrupt Senator Paine, played by Claude Rains.  FTP name the idealistic young junior senator played by Jimmy Stewart who, in 1939, went to Washington.
\par Answer: Mr. Jefferson }{\b\fs20 Smith}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 21. This Spaniard\rquote s father hoped he would be a soldier, but it should have been obvious when his first words were \ldblquote Jesus\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Mary,\rdblquote 
 and by his vow at age 9 to keep his eyes always downcast to 
avoid ever seeing a woman, that a religious life was in store.  He joined the Jesuits in 1586, and spent his life caring for the poor at a Milanese hospital, where he caught the plague and died at age 23.  FTP name this patron saint of Catholic youth, for
 whom is named the Spokane alma mater of Bing Crosby and John Stockton.
\par Answer: St. Aloysius }{\b\fs20 Gonzaga}{\fs20 \tab 
\par 
\par 22. Plato, in his Timaeus, considered it the most binding of all mathematical relations and makes it the key to the physics of the cosmos.  During the Ren
aissance, it served as the "hermetic" structure on which some of the great masterpieces were composed. Phidias closely studied it and used it in his work, and consequently it was given the name phi.  FTP, name this constant, which accurate to three decima
l places is 1.618.
\par Answer:  The }{\b\fs20 Golden Ratio}{\fs20  or the }{\b\fs20 Golden Mean}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 23. Xerox developed it in the late 1970s, based on the Aloha radio system used to support computer communication across the Hawaiian islands.  In this type of network, multiple stations all share the same link, send data in packets, and use \ldblquote 
collision detect\rdblquote  to ensure frames never interfere.  The forwarding \ldblquote repeaters\rdblquote  means that one of these has a total reach of only 2500 m and can support a maximum of 1024 hosts.  FTP name this most successf
ul type of LAN, which gets its name from its radio origins.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Ethernet}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 24. The Viennese ambassador to Turkey, Ogier de Busbecq, sent the first ones to Europe in 1551, with a shipment arriving in Antwerp in 1562.  At the height of the following craze
, in 1635, one of these of the Brasserie variety would have a bought a flourishing French brewery.  FTP, the Tupenwoede, which crashed in 1637, ruining the Dutch economy, was a speculative frenzy over what type of flower?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 tulip}{\fs20 s
\par }\pard \fi2880\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 25. \ldblquote So let me dish you this comedy about a family I knew when I was growing up.\rdblquote   So begins this not-very-comic novel, in which the events of }{\i\fs20 Fantastic Four}{\fs20 
 #141, especially the attack of Annihilus on Reed and Sue Richards, is used to parallel the disintegration of the Hood and Williams families.  It is memorably set in 1973 Connecticut, and ends with an apocalyptic \ldblquote key party.\rdblquote 
  FTP name this 1994 novel by Rick Moody, about a famous weekend blizzard, adapted into a 1997 film by Ang Lee.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Ice Storm}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 26. It was suggested in 1911 by German psychologist William Stern, and was adopted by Lewis Terman at Stanford in 1916.  Although it has recently fallen into disrepute and is often replaced by Leon Rosenberg\rquote 
s Johns Hopkins Perceptual Test, many tests are still adjusted to yield this score, which follows a normal distribution.  FTP name this quantity, originally computed as mental age over chronological age multiplied by 100.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 I}{\fs20 ntelligence }{\b\fs20 Q}{\fs20 uotient
\par }\pard \fi1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 27. The classic film }{\i\fs20 Blow Up}{\fs20  is based on his short story \ldblquote Las Babas del Diablo.\rdblquote 
  Born in Brussels, he did most of his best work in his home country and in Paris, where he worked as a UNESCO translator and played jazz trumpet.  FTP name the late Argentine writer whose best works include the novels
\par }{\i\fs20 Around the Day in 80 Worlds, A Manual for Manuel}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Hopscotch}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Julio }{\b\fs20 Cortazar}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 28. After Digory Kirke and Polly Plummer retrieved their magical silver apple, they planted its core in a London backyard, from which it grew into a mighty apple tree.  When a storm knocke
d over the tree, Digory, by then a famous professor, built this magical object from its wood, and during the War, Lucy Pevensie passed through it and discovered a new world.  FTP name this enchanted piece of furniture, a title object in the first of C.S. 
Lewis' Chronicles of Narnia.
\par Answer: the }{\b\fs20 wardrobe}{\fs20  (prompt on \ldblquote Narnia\rdblquote  or \ldblquote The Magician's Nephew\rdblquote  on early buzz)
\par 
\par 29. Locally called the Song Hong, it arises is the central Yunnan province, and is joined by the Song Li and Song Da (or Clear and Dark Rivers) 
on its way to the sea.  Its common name derives from the large amount of silt it contains, which is deposited in a densely populated 2,700-square-mile delta on the Gulf of Tonkin.  FTP name this largest river of northern Vietnam, along which lies Haiphong
 and Hanoi.
\par Answer: the }{\b\fs20 Red}{\fs20  River or }{\b\fs20 Yuan Chiang}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 30. The name, or rather nickname, is the same.  One was a 16th century musician and composer, a product of the Cretan Renaissance who was music master to the Duke of Bavaria and the cantor of Venice.  The ot
her was a painter who set eerie casts on the landscapes that he painted as a wanderer before settling in Toledo.  FTP, Give the shared nickname of Frangiskos Leondaritis and Dominikos Theotokopoulos which refers to their shared Cretan heritage.
\par Answer: El }{\b\fs20 Greco}{\fs20 
\par \page }{\b\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by BYU A
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20 {Bonuses
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {1. Answer the following about the Thirty Years\rquote  War for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 5. Name the episode that started the war, in which two Austrian diplomats were thrown out of a Tower by angry Bohemians.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Defenestration of Prague}{\fs20 
\par 10. Next name the Catholic terror who raised his own army and played by his own rules. His ruthlessness was legendary and he refused to stop fighting the Danes after a peace treaty was signed.  So, the emperor had him assasinated.
\par Answer:  Albrecht von }{\b\fs20 Waldstein}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Wallenstein}{\fs20 
\par 15. This man sent the diplomats, had Wallenstein assassinated, and could probably be blamed for the war in the first place. This Austrian Hapsburg and Holy Roman Emperor died in 1637, which triggered a near collapse of Catholic forces.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Ferdinand II}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 2. Identify these composers who don\rquote t get enough respect FTP each.
\par 1. Do not overlook this Austrian composer of light operas like }{\i\fs20 Morning, Noon, and Night in Vienna}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Poet and Peasant}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Light Cavalry}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Francesco Ezechiele Ermenegildo Cavaliere }{\b\fs20 Supp\'e9}{\fs20  Demelli or Franz von }{\b\fs20 Supp\'e9
\par }{\fs20 2. Don\rquote t be dissin\rquote  this English composer of }{\i\fs20 A Village Romeo and Juliet}{\fs20  and the }{\i\fs20 Florida Suite}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Frederick }{\b\fs20 Delius}{\fs20 
\par 3. Although he\rquote s derisively called \ldblquote Haydn\rquote s wife\rdblquote , don\rquote t talk smack about this Italian contemporary of Haydn. Eleven of his cello concertos survive, and his guitar quintets include the famous \ldblquote Fandango,
\rdblquote  but he is best known for a rockin\rquote  Minuet from his string quartet in E.
\par Answer: Luigi }{\b\fs20 Boccherini}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 3. Identify from clues these literary works which take place in Scotland for ten points each.  You will receive 5 points if you need the author.
\par 1. 10. This 1927 novel follows the Ramsays, their eight children, and guests like painter Lily Briscoe over 10 years of summer visits to the Hebrides.
\par       5. Virginia Woolf
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 To the Lighthouse}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {2. 10. David Balfour's miserly uncle tries to send him away to an American plantation, but his ship wrecks and he falls in with some dangerous highland rebels.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20       5. Robert Louis Stevenson 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Kidnapped}{\fs20  
\par 3. 10. This 1961 novel tells the story of an unconventional Edinburgh schoolteacher, who romances painter Teddy Lloyd and admires the Italian fascists.
\par       5. Muriel Spark
\par Answer: The}{\i\fs20  }{\b\fs20 Prime of Miss Jean Brodie}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi2160\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 4. For ten points each, identify these things associated with glaciers, none of which are moraines, drumlins, or eskers.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {1.  The most common type of glacier is named for these large, steep, round mountainside hollows where they are formed.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 cirque}{\fs20 s
\par 2. Give either of the 4-letter words used to describe coarse glacial snow.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 firn}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 neve}{\fs20 
\par 3.  Name the cross-glacial bands of alternating light and dark ice used to measure one year\rquote s ice flow.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 ogive}{\fs20 s
\par 
\par 5. Name the last Americans to do each of the following things, for ten points each.
\par 1. Walk on the moon.
\par Answer: Eugene }{\b\fs20 Cernan}{\fs20 
\par 2.  Be named five-star general.
\par Answer: Omar }{\b\fs20 Bradley}{\fs20 
\par 3.  Lose a Presidential bid while serving as Vice-President.
\par Answer: Hubert H. }{\b\fs20 Humphrey}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. Answer the following questions about Sophocles' play}{\i\fs20  Antigone}{\fs20  for the stated number of points.
\par 10. For five points each, name the two brothers of Antigone who kill each other in battle as the play begins.
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Eteocles}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Polynices}{\fs20 
\par 5. How does Antigone eventually die?
\par Answer: she }{\b\fs20 hangs herself}{\fs20   (prompt on \ldblquote suicide\rdblquote  or equivalents; do }{\b\fs20 not}{\fs20  accept \ldblquote entombment\rdblquote  or equivalents)
\par 5/15. Five points for one, fifteen for both, name Antigone's reluctant sister, and the king who sentences Antigone to death. 
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Ismene}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Creon}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 7. Answer the following questions about quantum chromodynamics for ten points each.
\par 10.  In QCD, the colors minus-red, minus-green, and minus-blue are used to classify these particles.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 antiquark}{\fs20 s
\par 10.  In QCD, quarks change color as they as they emit or absorb these massless particles.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 gluon}{\fs20 s
\par 10.  FFPE, QCD does not explain these two flavors of heavy quarks discovered in the late 1970's.
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 charm}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 bottom}{\fs20  quarks
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 8. Identify the following \ldblquote seas\rdblquote  from descriptions, for ten points each.
\par 1.  This nearly landlocked sea, the Beloya More, is formed by four large gulfs and connects with the Barents Sea only via a narrow strait called the Gorlo, or \ldblquote throat.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: the }{\b\fs20 White}{\fs20  Sea
\par 2.  This arm of the Mediterranean extends between Corsica and Tuscany, stretching from the Gulf of Genoa in the north to the Tuscan Archipelago in the south.
\par Answer: the }{\b\fs20 Ligurian}{\fs20  Sea
\par 3.  This area, northeast of Ptolemaeus crater, was the site of the Apollo 11 moon landing.
\par Answer: the Sea of }{\b\fs20 Tranquility}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Mare Tranquilitatis}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 9. Name the following political figures from modern Israeli history from clues for the stated number of points.
\par 5. As the first Prime Minister of Israel, he instituted a policy of absolute reprisals against Arab terrorists that angered many neutral countries.  This self styled \ldblquote Son of a Lion\rdblquote  was the hard-line force behind Israel\rquote 
s involvement in the Suez crisis.
\par Answer: David }{\b\fs20 Ben\_Gurion}{\fs20  or David }{\b\fs20 Gruen}{\fs20 
\par 15. This successor to Ben\_Gurion and former Foreign Minister spoke seven languages, was a moderate force in Israeli politics, and favored closer ties with the U.N., but was seen by his countrymen as too pacifistic. 
\par Answer: Moshe }{\b\fs20 Sharett}{\fs20  Moshe }{\b\fs20 Shertok}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {10. This man succeeded Golda Meir as Prime Minister in 1974.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: Itzhak }{\b\fs20 Rabin}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 10. Identify the following things associated with titration experiments in chemistry for ten points each.
\par 1. These long, thin graduated vessels are generally used to add titrant to a solution of unknown concentration little by little until an end point 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 burette}{\fs20 
\par 2. This is the name given to the solution of unknown concentration being examined.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 analyte}{\fs20 
\par 3.  This rarely-practiced form of titrimetry is not volumetric or gravimetric, but instead measures the amount of charge consumed in a reaction.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 coulometric}{\fs20  titrimetry
\par 
\par 11. It\rquote s literary conjunction bonus time, ten points each.  In this case, an NBA star will be conjoined with the name of literary work, a la "Jerry Stackhouse of Seven Gables.\rdblquote 
\par 1.   The All-Star Pistons forward who led the league in triple-doubles last year, and Chinua Achebe\rquote s 1988 tale of corrupt African politics during a drought.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Granthills of the Savannah}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {2.  The Wizards forward from Michigan\rquote s fabled \ldblquote Fab Five,\rdblquote  and E.M. Forster\rquote s novel about class differences between the Wilcox and Schlegel families.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 Juwan Howard\rquote s End}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {3.  The Georgetown grad starting at center for the Miami Heat, and the Eugene O\rquote Neill trilogy composed of Homecoming, The Hunted, and The Haunted.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 Alonzo Mourning Becomes Electra
\par }{\fs20 
\par 12. Name the architectural masterpiece, 30-20-10.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {30. This structure was built as a last-minute replacement for an earlier plan: a 160-foot-high elephant squirting water from its trunk.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 20. The principal sword in its most famous sculpture, Departure of the Volunteers, fell off in 1916 on the day the Battle of Verdun started, and the sculpture was covered lest anyone see the bad omen.
\par 10. It is oriented along the axis of the setting sun on December 2, the date of the Battle of Austerlitz, which it commemorates.
\par Answer: le }{\b\fs20 Arc de Triomphe}{\fs20  de l\rquote Etoile, or a plausible translation
\par 
\par 13. Identify these Shakespearean characters who never actually appear on stage for ten points each.
\par 1.  As }{\i\fs20 Romeo and Juliet}{\fs20  opens, Romeo is mooning over his unrequited love for her, as he is lately "out of her favour."
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Rosaline}{\fs20 
\par 2.  This "blue\_ey'd hag" was the mother of Caliban in }{\i\fs20 The Tempest}{\fs20 , and was the one who first imprisoned Ariel. A moon of Uranus was recently named for her.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Sycorax}{\fs20 
\par 3.  This dead man is the subject of the line, "He hath borne my on his back a thousand times, and now how abhorred in my imagination it is!  My gorge rises at it."
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Yorick}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 14. Identify the classical Greek city state from a historical description for ten points each.
\par 1. Also known as Lakemedon, it had an army second to none and a social structure based around a ruling council of ephors.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Sparta}{\fs20 
\par 2. Founded by Cadmus and one-time kingdom of Oedipus, their \ldblquote sacred band\rdblquote  ended Spartan hegemony.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Thebes}{\fs20 
\par 3. It saw the first philosophical flowering in Greece with talents such as Thales, and this Lydian city state had over eighty colonies.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Miletus}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 15. Identify these Biblical wives of King David from clues for ten points each.
\par 1.  This second daughter of King Saul was David\rquote s first wife.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Michal}{\fs20 
\par 2.  This woman pacified an angry David, saving the wife of her husband Nabal.  When Nabal died, David married her, and she gave him his second son.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Abigail}{\fs20 
\par 3.  The widow of Uriah the Hittite, this wife became the mother of Solomon not long after David \ldblquote saw her washing.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Bathsheba}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 16. Name these Jewish scientists from descriptions of their accomplishments for ten points each.
\par 1.  If this physicist hadn\rquote t beaten his American counterpart George Zweig to publication in 1964, the particles he proposed might today bear Zweig\rquote s dull name for them: \ldblquote aces.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: Murray }{\b\fs20 Gell-Mann}{\fs20 
\par 2.  Niels Bohr helped this radioactivity expert escape Nazi Germany for Stockholm, where a letter from Otto Hahn inspired her famous prediction of nuclear fission. 
\par Answer: Lise }{\b\fs20 Meitner}{\fs20 
\par 3.  This Italian, presented by Lawrence with an accumulated unknown substance from the Berkeley cyclotron, took it back to Palermo and led the team that eventually isolated technetium, the first artificial element. 
\par Answer: Emilio }{\b\fs20 Segre}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 17. Give the following legal terms associated with wills for ten points each.
\par 1.  This is the person appointed by the testator to ensure that final wishes are respected in the will\rquote s administration.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 executor}{\fs20 
\par 2. This is a formal certificate given by a court certifying that a will is valid and legal.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 probate}{\fs20 
\par 3. This is an amendment to an existing will that does not replace the will but changes it to a certain extent.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 codicil}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 18. Name these centaurs from Greek mythology for the stated number of points.
\par 5. This wise centaur, the only immortal among them, was the tutor of heroes like Achilles and Asclepius.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Chiron}{\fs20 
\par 10. This centaur made the mistake of trying to rape Heracles\rquote  wife, and his poisonous blood killed Heracles after she was persuaded that it would serve as a love charm. 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Nessus}{\fs20 
\par 15. This brutal centaur led the battle that broke out at the wedding of Peirithous and was later killed by Heracles.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Eurytion}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 19. Answer the following questions about photosynthesis for ten points each.
\par 1.  Photosynthesis occurs in these specialized organelles found only in plant cells. 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 chloroplast}{\fs20 s
\par 2.  The oxidation-reduction reaction involved in the \ldblquote light\rdblquote  reactions of photosynthesis occurs via a chemiosmotic mechanism in these chloroplast membranes.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 thylakoid}{\fs20  membranes
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {3.  Soluble enzymes in these compartments of the chloroplast perform the dark reactions of photosynthesis.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 stroma}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 20. Answer the following about South African politics for the stated number of points.
\par 5. What vice-presidential candidate was accused in 1997 of the murder of 14-year-old activist Seipei Stompie?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Winnie}{\fs20  Mandikizela }{\b\fs20 Mandela}{\fs20 
\par 15. Name the council set up to investigate apartheid-era human rights violations which has investigated the matter.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 T}{\fs20 ruth and }{\b\fs20 R}{\fs20 econciliation }{\b\fs20 C}{\fs20 ommission
\par 10. In what notorious prison, named after the Dutch word for the seals that inhabit it, was Winnie\rquote s husband Nelson jailed for 27 years of his prison term? 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Robben}{\fs20  Island\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 21. Identify the Ibsen play from character names for ten points each.
\par 1.  Dr. Thomas Stockmann, Asklaksen, Hovstad
\par Answer: An }{\b\fs20 Enemy of the People}{\fs20 
\par 2.  George Tessman, Eilert Lovberg, Judge Black
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Hedda Gabler}{\fs20 
\par 3.  Torvald Helmer, Nils Krogstad, Christine Linde
\par Answer: A }{\b\fs20 Doll\rquote s House}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 22. Name the literary figure 30-20-10.
\par 1. Late in life, he wrote an opera, }{\i\fs20 The Testament of Francois Villon}{\fs20 , and was jailed for his hundreds of radio broadcasts denouncing FDR and praising Mussolini.
\par 2. He called his long dramatic work }{\i\fs20 Hugh Selwyn Mauberley,}{\fs20  about an unsuccessful British artist, an attempt Ato condense a Henry James novel.
\par 3. This Idaho-born poet is best-known for Imagist works like \ldblquote In a Station of the Metro\rdblquote  and his 117 sections of Cantos.
\par Answer: Ezra }{\b\fs20 Pound}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 23. Identify these \ldblquote bestsellers\rdblquote  from philosophy for 10 given a Barnes and Noble description or 5 given the philosopher who wrote the work.
\par 1. 10. This seminal text in the history of moral philosophy elaborates the basic themes of the author\rquote s moral theory, gives the most complete statement of his highly original theory of freedom of the will, and develops his practical metaphysics.

\par       5. Immanuel Kant
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Critique of Practical Reason}{\fs20 
\par 2. 10. The often criticized philosophy of the 
author encompasses the dilemmas and aspirations of the individual in contemporary society. This work of power and epic scope provides a vivid analysis for all who would understand one of the most influential philosophic movements of this or any age.  This
 book is regarded by many as the definitive work on existentialism.
\par       5. Jean-Paul Sartre
\par Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Being and Nothingness}{\fs20 
\par 3. 10. A beguiling beginner's guide to Western philosophy in the form of a novel about a young Norwegian girl.  "Remarkable...a whimsical and ingenious mystery novel that also happens to be a history of philosophy"
\par       5. Jostein Gaarder
\par Answer:   }{\b\fs20 Sophie's World}{\fs20 : A Novel About the History of Philosophy
\par 
\par 24. Name these Russian novels that contain love interests named Sonia for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {1.  In this novel, penniless Sonya Rostov is loved by her cousin Nikolay, but he breaks her heart and marries a wealthy, titled bride. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:
\par 2. In this novel, Sonya Semyonovna Marmeladov is an angelic figure who redeems Raskolnikov while he serves his prison term.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Crime and Punishment}{\fs20 
\par 3.  In this 1932 Nabokov novel, Russian emigre Martin Edelweiss is seduced by Sonia, a ruthless editor\rquote s daughter, while at Cambridge.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Glory}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 25. Name the punctuation symbols that perform the following operations in C and C++ for ten points each.
\par 1.  The MOD operator
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 %}{\fs20  (the }{\b\fs20 percent}{\fs20  sign)
\par 2.  Dereferencing a pointer
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 *}{\fs20  (the }{\b\fs20 asterisk}{\fs20 )
\par 3. The bitwise OR
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 |}{\fs20  (the }{\b\fs20 pipe}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 vertical}{\fs20  line or }{\b\fs20 concatenator}{\fs20 )
\par 
\par 26. Six African countries border only two other nations.  Name them for five points each. (Moderator: allow 20 seconds to answer).
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Morocco}{\fs20 , }{\b\fs20 Tunisia,}{\fs20  }{\b\fs20 Egypt}{\fs20 , }{\b\fs20 Guinea-Bissau}{\fs20 , }{\b\fs20 Sierra Leone}{\fs20 , }{\b\fs20 Equatorial Guinea}{\fs20 , }{\b\fs20 Swaziland}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {27. Place the following events from the French Revolution in order from earliest to latest for five points each.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 The events are:  Napoleon declared First Consul, the storming of the Bastille, the Tennis Court Oath, Declaration of the Rights of Man passed, the fall of Robespierre, and the execution of Louis XVI. 
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Tennis Court Oath}{\fs20  (20 June 1789), }{\b\fs20 storming of the Bastille}{\fs20  (14 July 1789),}{\b\fs20  Declaration of the Rights of Man}{\fs20  (27 August 1789), }{\b\fs20 execution of Louis XVI}{\fs20  (21 January 1793), }{
\b\fs20 fall of Robespierre}{\fs20  (28 July 1794), }{\b\fs20 Napoleon declared First Consul}{\fs20  (9 November 1799).
\par 
\par 28. Name the modern "Luddites" that were influential in the 1960\_1970's anti-technology movement from a description for ten points each.
\par 1. This Green Party candidate for President has ranted about nuclear power, housing materials, and plastic containers, but he is most famous for his scathing critique of automobiles }{\i\fs20 Unsafe at Any Speed}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-1440\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: Ralph }{\b\fs20 Nader}{\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 2. This social critic lampooned the automobile as the "sacred cow that gives poisoned milk." He also wrote an scathing aesthetic critique of  }{\i\fs20 The American City}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Lewis }{\b\fs20 Mumford}{\fs20 
\par 3. She attacked the pharmaceutical and chemical industries in any forum possible, including her book }{\i\fs20 Silent Spring}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Rachel }{\b\fs20 Carson}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 29. Answer the following questions about the economics of uncertainty for ten points each.
\par 1. Daniel Bernoulli discovered this famous problem which consists of a coin flipping game where the expected value to the player is infinite yet almost no one will pay more than a dollar to play. He named it for a Russian city.
\par Answer: the }{\b\fs20 St. Petersburg}{\fs20  Paradox
\par 2. The standard way of resolving this paradox is to posit a type of behavior in which the utility of wealth is a concave increasing function so that the expected utility of wealth is greater than the utility of E
\par expected wealth.  Give the name for this type of behavior which leads a person to refuse any fair bet.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 risk aversion}{\fs20 
\par 3. Finally, a risk averse person will be willing to pay more for insurance than the amount he expects to lose in an accident.  What do economists call this difference?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 risk premium}{\fs20 \tab 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 30. Identify the following figures in Raphael\rquote s The School of Athens for ten points each.
\par 1.  Bramante posed as this man, shown bending forward and using a compass to draw a six-pointed star.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Euclid}{\fs20 
\par 2.  The brooding man in the foreground, either Heraclitus or Democritus, is thought to be a portrait of this fellow artist.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Michelangelo}{\fs20  Buonarroti
\par 3.  Averroes observes this seated man, at whose feet sit a tablet showing musical intervals.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Pythagoras}{\fs20 
\par }}