{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
Body Text;}{\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Plain Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1012357368\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat21\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid486092394}{\list\listtemplateid1266829440\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat2\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid685254289}{\list\listtemplateid1266829440\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat30\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid720205032}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid720205032\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid685254289\listoverridecount0\ls2}
{\listoverride\listid486092394\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\info{\title 1}{\author Authorized Gateway Customer}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min7}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min7}{\printim\yr1999\mo1\dy28\hr22\min34}{\version2}
{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords4602}{\nofchars26236}{\*\company Carleton College}{\nofcharsws32219}{\vern89}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions  by Carleton College
\par Tossups}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 1. Born in North Oxford, Massachusetts, she established the first free school in New Jersey and was the first female copyist at the Patent Office.  In 1883, she became superintendent of the Women's Reformatory Prison, and later went to help people devasta
ted by fires in Michigan, genocide in Armenia, and flood in Johnstown.  FTP, name this founder of the American Red Cross.
\par Answer:\tab Clara }{\b\fs20 Barton}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {2. The first one was an Abyssinian slave named Bilal, who was responsible for proclaiming the \ldblquote azan,\rdblquote  but now thi
s official is considered a servant of the mosque and is chosen for his good character.  The job description is rather simple: intone a seven-part formula giving glory to Allah and instructing people to come to salat four times from the top of a minaret; h
owever, many cities have replaced this person\rquote s duty with electronic recordings.  FTP, identify this Muslim official who calls the faithful to prayer each day.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 muezzin }{\fs20 [moo-EZ-in]
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {3. The first title object is a converted female boarding school, in 
which everything is bolted to the floor.  The second is in Vienna and was originally called the Gasthaus Freud.  The third is the headquarters for a rape crisis center; its only six guests ever are an Arizona family lost in a snowstorm.  FTP, name this Jo
hn Irving novel, more about life in Vienna and New York than about room service in Concord.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab The }{\b\fs20 Hotel New Hampshire}{\fs20\ul 
\par }{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {4. This accounts for the superfluous negative energy states of an elect
ron as predicted by the relativistic quantum mechanical theory proposed by Dirac.  A spin one-half particle, it was observed in cloud chamber photographs of cosmic rays, and it is ejected by proton-rich radioactive nuclei in positive beta decay.  FTP, ide
ntify this particle, discovered in 1932 by Carl Anderson.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 positron}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 anti-electron}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 5. This Cossack began writing at age 17 with the 1926 collection of short stories \ldblquote Donskie rasskazy.\rdblquote   Unlike many of his contemporary literati, he was popular in t
he government.  A member of the Central Committee, he won the Stalin prize for his most famous creation, a four-volume work set in his homeland.  FTP, identify this Nobel prize-winning author of }{\i\fs20 Virgin Soil Upturned}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 
The Silent Don}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab Mikhail Aleksandrovich }{\b\fs20 Sholokhov}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par 6. Posthumous releases from this composer include the collection of songs \ldblquote Orpheus Britannicus\rdblquote  and the opera }{\i\fs20 The Indian Queen.}{\fs20   He wrote a number of odes for Saint Cecelia\rquote s day, and incidental music for }{
\i\fs20 A Midsummer Night\rquote s
\par Dream}{\fs20 , but his most famous composition was written for a girls\rquote  school in 1689.  FTP, name this English composer who, with librettist Nahum Tate, wrote the opera }{\i\fs20 Dido and Aeneas}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:  Henry }{\b\fs20 Purcell}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {7. In conifers, this tissue is made up mainly of tracheids, th
us presenting a uniform, nonporous appearance characteristic of softwood.  The primary type is derived from the growth of the apical meristem, while the secondary type is derived from the cambium.  It has several components, including the tracheids, which
 are elongated conduction and support cells, parenchyma cells for food storage, and woody fibers.  FTP, name this type of vascular tissue that conducts water and nutrients up from the roots.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 xylem}{\fs20 
\par }{\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 8. He sought a universal religion which he thought might be found in totemistic worship and, in 1915, published }{\i\fs20 Elementary Forms of the Religious Life}{\fs20 .  He also started the journal }{\i\fs20 L'Ann
\'e9e Sociologique}{\fs20  and wrote }{\i\fs20 The Rules of Sociological Method}{\fs20 .  FTP, name this social scientist who found that the breakdown of societal norms, which he called }{\i\fs20 anomie}{\fs20 , led to increased suicides.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab Emile }{\b\fs20 Durkheim}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 9. Chapter 11 is \ldblquote The Belief in Luck,\rdblquote  chapter 10 is \ldblquote Modern Survivals of Prowess,\rdblquote  and chapter 5 is \ldblquote The Pecuniary Standard of Living.\rdblquote   This work used Darwin\rquote s
 theory of evolution to analyze the modern industrial system, and its author claimed that industry demanded diligence, efficiency, and cooperation among businessmen.   Instead, the author witnessed predatory tactics and what he termed \ldblquote 
conspicuous consumption.\rdblquote   FTP, identify this theoretical 1899 work of Thorstein Veblen.
\par Answer:\tab The }{\b\fs20 Theory of the Leisure Class}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 10. The change in this quantity is equal to the maximum work accompanying a process, and a change in a system at constant temperature and volume i
s spontaneous if this decreases.  FTP, identify this thermodynamic quantity, defined as internal energy minus temperature times entropy, which is similar to the Gibbs free energy of a system.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Helmholtz}{\fs20  energy
\par 
\par 11. It reached its summit in its victo
ries over Waldemar IV of Denmark, gaining in the Treaty of Stralsund a virtual monopoly in Scandinavia, but its hegemony was curbed by a Dutch defeat in 1441.  The last diet was held in 1669, but this group never formally dissolved.  Originating in a trea
ty between L\'fcbeck and Hamburg in 1241, its goal was to obtain mutual security and exclusive trading rights for its members.  FTP, identify this medieval German mercantile league.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Hanseatic}{\fs20  League
\par 
\par 12. Its largest permanent stream is the Kerulen Rive
r, and oilfields within it include Saynshand and Yumen.  Stretching from the Da Hinggan to the Tian Shan, it rests on a plateau and consists of a series of shallow alkaline basins, though the western portion is entirely sandy, and nearly all of this regio
n\rquote s soil has been deposited as loess [LESS] in north central China.  FTP, identify this desert, also called Yintai shamo, that covers part of Mongolia.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Gobi}{\fs20  Desert 
\par 
\par 13. In the preface to this work, the author states that its object would be achieve
d if there were one person who read it with understanding and to whom it afforded pleasure.  You should be careful talking about it, however, because the last sentence dictates \ldblquote whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must remain silent.
\rdblquote   This 75-page book published in 1921 examines the limits of language on knowledge and philosophy.  FTP, what is this Ludwig Wittgenstein book?
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus}{\fs20   or  }{\b\fs20 Logisch-philosophische Abhandlung}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {14. It was not written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, but
 this story does deal with love in a time of cholera.  The disease parallels the decadent illness that has fallen over Europe, especially the seaside resort of Lido, where a young Polish boy named Tadzio frolics in the surf and befriends the famous German
 author Gustav von Aschenbach.  They both fall prey to the plague in, FTP, which Thomas Mann novella?
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Death in Venice}{\fs20   or  Der }{\b\fs20 Tod in Venedig}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {15. Variation in its properties can stem from the amount of UV radiation received from the sun as well as effects of the earth\rquote 
s magnetic field.  The highest portion is known as the Appleton layer, which lies above the Kennelly-Heaviside layers, and, at its upper reaches, it merges with the region of the Van Allen belts.  FTP, identify this region where nitrog
en and oxygen molecules interact with x-rays, the layer of the atmosphere that allows for long-distance radio communication because of charged particles.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 ionosphere}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 16. Born in 1924, he was a schoolmaster when he joined the ANC in 1949.  Ten years
 later, he led opposition to the Central African Federation, which led to his imprisonment for a year.  Upon his release, he became president of the
\par United National Independence Party, which was the controlling party in his country four years later.  FTP, name this leader, president of Zambia from 1964 to 1991.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab Kenneth David }{\b\fs20 Kaunda}{\fs20\ul 
\par }{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 17. Critics considered him a writer of moral allegories, but this author of }{\i\f0 The Scorpion God}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The Spire}{\f0 
 regarded his own books as fables.  Riddled with literary, mythological and Christian symbols, his best-known work also reflects his experiences in the British Navy and in teaching small boys.  FTP, name this 1983 Nobel laureate, author of }{\i\f0 
The Pyramid}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Pincher Martin}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 Lord of the Flies}{\f0 .
\par Answer:\tab William }{\b\f0 Golding}{\f0\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 18. He was sometimes called \ldblquote The Great Stone Face\rdblquote  for his blank countenance and apparent stoicism against frustration.  His first feature-length film was inauspiciously called }{\i\fs20 
The Saphead}{\fs20 , but he made up for it with movies entitled }{\i\fs20 The Cameraman}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 The Navigator}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Sherlock Jr}{\fs20 
.  FTP, identify this early American actor, director and screenwriter, the creator of the silent masterpiece }{\i\fs20 The General}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 Answer:\tab Joseph Francis \ldblquote Buster\rdblquote  }{\b\f0 Keaton}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20\ul 
\par }{\fs20 19. In 1864 Brazil invaded and occupied Uruguay.  Paraguayan leader Franci
sco Lopez planned to attack southern Brazil and reach Uruguay by going through Argentina; instead he met with hostility on the part of Argentina, who would not let Lopez pass through.  In January 1865, Lopez crossed the Argentine border, and an all-out co
nflict ensued.  FTP, name this war, in which Uruguay and Brazil teamed up with Argentina to defeat Lopez and his troops.
\par Answer:\tab War of the }{\b\fs20 Triple Alliance}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 20. He claimed he drew only at night, with a special golden pen and by the light of two ormolu candlesticks.  Before his death in 1892 at age 26, his characteristic grotesque androgynes appeared in editions of }{\i\fs20 Lysistrata}{\fs20  and 
\ldblquote The Rape of the Lock,\rdblquote  both fine examples of Art Nouveau decadence.  FTP, name this artist, editor of the \ldblquote Yellow Book\rdblquote  and illustrator of Oscar Wilde\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Salome}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab Aubrey }{\b\fs20 Beardsley}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {21. Founded by Li Yuan, its holdings extended as far west as Uzbekistan and as far south as Vietnam, but they were limited after defeat at the hands of the Arabs.  This period was renowned for the fl
owering of art and literature, and it was responsible for the invention of printing and the manufacture of gunpowder.  FTP, name this Chinese dynasty lasting from 618 to 907 CE.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Tang}{\fs20  Dynasty
\par 
\par 22. He served in the U.S. Army Counter-Intelligence Corps From 1943 to 1946 and , after that, was a Captain in the Military Intelligence Reserve for three years.  In 1972, he employed \ldblquote shuttle diplomacy\rdblquote 
 in improving relations between Egypt and Israel.  FTP, name this former Secretary of State, who led the negotiations that resulted in a cease-fire in Vietnam.
\par Answer: Henry }{\b\fs20 Kissinger}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 23. Though it has two sensory ganglia, its only sensory function is for a tiny area around the opening of the external ear.  The most complex of its family of nerves, it stimulates
 secretion of stomach and pancreatic juices, contributes motor impulses to muscles in the larynx and pharynx, controls involuntary muscles in the bronchi, esophagus and small intestine, in addition to its more well-known function of slowing heart rate.  F
TP, identify this tenth and longest of the cranial nerves.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 vagus}{\fs20  nerve  (prompt on tenth cranial nerve on an early buzz)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {24. Later in life, Zeus turned her into a lion for sleeping in a sacred grove with her husband.  Abandoned at birth by her fath
er and raised by hunters, she went on to use her hunting skills to help defeat the Calydonian boar.  FTP, name this swift heroine of Greek myth, who was bested in a foot race by her husband-to-be.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Atalanta}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 25. This Renaissance man, who was made ca
non of Frauenburg, translated Theophylactus Theophylactus, and his first recorded stellar observation was an eclipse of Aldebaran.  He discussed astronomy with Pope Clement VII in 1536, and later wrote the six-sectioned treatise}{\i\fs20 
, De revolutionibus orbium coelestium}{\fs20 , which expounded his heliocentric theory.  FTP, name this Polish revolutionary and astronomer.
\par Answer:\tab Nicolaus }{\b\fs20 Copernicus}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {26. Its basic rhyme scheme is aaba, and in extant manuscripts these are customarily arranged alphabetically according to the letter concluding the rhyme.  The first edition translation of one set begins 
\ldblquote Awake! For Morning in the Bowl of Night / Has flung the Stone that puts the Stars to Flight,\rdblquote  and like the masnavi, it is purely a Persian genre.  FTP, identify this verse form, whose name means \ldblquote quatrains,\rdblquote 
 the most famous set of which were translated by Edward FitzGerald and written by a son of a tent-maker.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 rubaiyat}{\fs20   or  }{\b\fs20 ruba\rquote i}{\fs20  (singular)
\par 
\par 27. He never reads novels, so, when bored, he \ldblquote suggests and arranges. . . little elegant compliments\rdblquote 
 for the purpose of flattering his patroness.  In fact, his ridiculous proposal to the heroine of the novel comes at the express advice of that woman, the Lady Catherine de Bourgh.  FTP, name the officious clergyman-buffoon of }{\i\fs20 Pride
 and Prejudice}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab William }{\b\fs20 Collins}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par 28. He first joined the Socialist party in 1904, and by 1919 was in charge of the party and its journal }{\i\fs20 Le Populaire}{\fs20 .  By the time he became premier, he was the first socialist and first Jew to lead France.  He push
ed through the 40-hour workweek and nationalized military industries, as the leader of a coalition of Socialists, Radicals, and other left leaning parties.  FTP, identify this man known for his work with the Popular Front.
\par Answer:\tab Leon }{\b\fs20 Blum}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f0 29. Born in 18
86 in Philadelphia, he urged African-Americans to seek inspiration and take pride in their cultural heritage.  He felt that race relations could be made better through literature and art and that African-Americans could gain confidence and acceptance by s
etting high standards for themselves.  FTP, name this man who virtually started the Harlem Renaissance, author of }{\i\f0 The New Negro}{\f0 .
\par Answer:\tab Alain }{\b\f0 Locke}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 30. A chisel for woodcarving is named after this transplanted Dutchman, whom John Evelyn claimed to have di
scovered.  His installations at Hampton Court Palace and Windsor Castle consist primarily of flowers, leaves and birds, at which he was most adept.  FTP, identify this master woodcarver, perhaps best known for his decorations for the Choir in St. Paul
\rquote s Cathedral.
\par Answer:\tab Grinling }{\b\fs20 Gibbons}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 \page }{\b\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions  by Carleton College
\par Bonuses}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {1. Identify the following relating to the exploits of Sir Francis Drake on a 5-10-15 basis:
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 5.  This was the name of his ship with which he circumnavigated the globe in 1578.
\par Answer:\tab The }{\b\fs20 Golden Hind}{\fs20 
\par 10. In 1585 this man served as vice admiral during an expedition to the West Indies, having previously explored Canada in a search for the Northwest Passage and given his name to a bay near Baffin Island.
\par Answer:\tab Sir Martin }{\b\fs20 Frobisher}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {15. He began pirating with this kinsman and buccaneer, who later became controller of the navy.  They also worked together on a failed 1595 plundering mission.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab Sir John }{\b\fs20 Hawkins}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {
2. A woman stands in profile, one hand upon a table, the other curving down across her hip to hold a pair of gloves. Her twisted posture, grey-white skin and voluptuously low-cut black dress emphasize her confidence, her vulnerability and a 
slightly perverse sexuality.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 10. For 5 points each, identify the artist and the common title of this 1884 painting.
\par Answers: John Singer }{\b\fs20 Sargent}{\fs20  and Portrait of }{\b\fs20 Madame X}{\fs20 
\par 5. For another 5 points, identify the feature that was repainted in response to public outcry.
\par Answer:\tab the dress\rquote  shoulder }{\b\fs20 strap}{\fs20   (accept equivalents)
\par 15. And for fifteen points, identify the subject's real name, the original title of the painting.
\par Answer:\tab Madame Judith }{\b\fs20 Gautreau}{\fs20   or  Madame Pierre }{\b\fs20 Gautreau}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 3. How well do you know your brain stem geography?  Identify the following for 10 points each:
\par 1. Lying between the cerebrum and the midbrain, it is composed of the thalamus and the hypothalamus.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 diencephalon}{\fs20 
\par 2. Lying below the cerebellum and the cavity of the fourth ventricle, this mass of fibers resembles a horseshoe and acts as a \ldblquote bridge\rdblquote  within the brain stem.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 pons}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {3. This extends from the lower end of the pons and joins with the spinal cord at the foramen magnum; it contains centers that control breathing, heart beat, 
and blood pressure, and most of the pyramidal motor tracts cross here.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 medulla}{\fs20  oblongata
\par 
\par 4. Identify the following about the geography of India:
\par 5/10. For five points for two, or ten for three, name the three longest rivers of India.
\par Answers: the }{\b\fs20 Indus}{\fs20 , the }{\b\fs20 Ganges}{\fs20 , and the }{\b\fs20 Brahmaputra}{\fs20 
\par 5. For five points, name the body of water separating India from Sri Lanka.
\par Answer:\tab the }{\b\fs20 Palk }{\fs20 Strait
\par 15. For 15 points, the southern part of the country, this highland lies between the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.  Short mountain chains, the Western and Eastern Ghats, form edges as does Vindhya Range to the north.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Deccan Plateau}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 5. Identify the following concerning classical literature for the stated number of points:
\par 10. FTP, this poem in four books deals mainly with agriculture, but it opens with details of the chaos that resulted after the death of Julius Caesar and ends with the myth of Aristaeus and the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Georgics}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {10. FTP, this poem in six books is the only large-scale poem written in dactylic hexameter. It concerns itself with the science of the universe, which is outlined book by book. 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 On the Nature of Things}{\fs20   or  }{\b\fs20 De rerum natura}{\fs20 
\par 10. For 5 points each, name the authors of }{\i\fs20 Georgics}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 De rerum natura}{\fs20 .
\par Answers: Publius }{\b\fs20 Vergil}{\fs20 us Maro and Titus }{\b\fs20 Lucretius}{\fs20  Carus
\par 
\par 6. Identify these Acts that affected the American colonies before the Revolutionary War for 10 points each:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {
1. This Act of 1774 created a permanent British government in Canada and granted religious freedom to Roman Catholics.  The colonies considered it one of the Intolerable Acts because it nullified many of their claims to Western lands.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Quebec}{\fs20  Act
\par 2. Repealed in 1766, this act prompted a meeting in October of 1765 at which the Declaration of Rights and Grievances was adopted.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Stamp}{\fs20  Act
\par 3. This name can be applied to any of several acts of Parliament between 1651 and 1847 designed primarily to expand British trade and limit trade by British colonies with countries that were rivals of Great Britain.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Navigation }{\fs20 Act(s)
\par 
\par 7. Identify these terms associated with the science of soils, for 10 points each:
\par 1. This term refers to organ
ic matter that has decayed to a relatively stable, amorphous state, which is a significant constituent of fertile soil.  Formed by the action of soil microorganisms, it has a low specific weight and a high surface area, which improves the erosion resistan
ce of soil.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 humus }{\fs20  [HYOO-mus]  (Note: this is not the chickpea spread!)
\par 2. Often confused with humus [HYOO-mus], this type of soil is composed of sand, silt, clay, and organic matter in evenly mixed particles of various sizes.  More fertile than san
dy soils, it is not stiff and tenacious, and its porosity allows high moisture retention and air circulation. 
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 loam}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {3. This is a deposit of sand or soil formed by flowing water, especially in the valleys of large rivers.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 alluvium}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 alluvial}{\fs20  deposit
\par 
\par 8. Identify the authors of the following from works, on a 10-5 basis:
\par 1. 10. }{\i\fs20 My Son\rquote s Story}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Soft Voice of the Serpent}{\fs20 
\par       5. }{\i\fs20 Burger\rquote s Daughter }{\fs20 and }{\i\fs20 July\rquote s People}{\fs20 
\par Answer:\tab Nadine }{\b\fs20 Gordimer}{\fs20 
\par 2. 10. }{\i\fs20 A Shuttle in the Crypt}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Invention}{\fs20 
\par       5.  }{\i\fs20 Kongi\rquote s Harvest}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Lion and the Jewel}{\fs20 
\par Answer:\tab Wole }{\b\fs20 Soyinka}{\fs20 
\par 3. 10. }{\i\fs20 Boesman and Lena}{\fs20 
\par       5. }{\i\fs20 Master Harold and the Boys}{\fs20 
\par Answer:\tab Athol }{\b\fs20 Fugard}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 9. Identify these terms from linguistics on a 5-10-15 basis:
\par 5. This branch of linguistics studies the science of speech sounds.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 phonology}{\fs20 
\par 10. This is the technical term for an expression that refers back to an antecedent -- for instance, the word "he" in the sentence "I like Bill; I hope he enjoys his cigar." In poetry, it is the repetition of a
 word or expression at the beginning of successive clauses.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 anaphora}{\fs20   (accept }{\b\fs20 endophora}{\fs20 ; do }{\b\fs20 not}{\fs20  accept cataphora)
\par 15. A kind of pun, this signifies the use of words that sound similar to other words, but have different meanings.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 paronomasia}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 10. Identify the following French ministers from descriptions for ten points or from the name of their king for five.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {1. 10. He reformed the tax system and served as ambassador to England.  He helped centralize power and arranged for the marriage of his king to Marie de Medici.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20       5. Henry IV
\par Answer: Maximilien de Bethune, Duc de }{\b\fs20 Sully}{\fs20  or the Marquis de }{\b\fs20 Rosny}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {2. 10. This man orchestrated the Franco-Spanish war, but his policies helped instigate the Fronde.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20       5. Louis XIV
\par Answer: Giulio Raimondo }{\b\fs20 Mazarini}{\fs20  or Jules }{\b\fs20 Mazarin}{\b\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {3. 10. A finance minister and secretary of the navy, he made taxes fairer and expanded the system of mercantilism.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20       5. Louis XIV
\par Answer:\tab Jean Baptiste }{\b\fs20 Colbert}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 11. Identify these types of addition reactions from organic chemistry for 10 points each:
\par 1. This refers to the nucleophilic addition of carbanions to an alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyl compound.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Michael}{\fs20  addition
\par 2. This type of reaction between alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyls and conjugated dienes [DIE-eens] results in the formation of a six-membered ring, where C1 and C4 of the diene attached to the doubly-bonded carbons in the carbonyl.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Diels-Alder\-}{\fs20  addition
\par 3. His rule for additions of acids to the carbon-carbon double bonds of alkenes says that the acidic proton attaches to the carbon in the alkene that already has the most hydrogens.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Markovnikov}{\fs20  addition
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 12. For 10 points each, identify the following composers and musicians important in the development of ambient music:
\par 1. This turn of the century composer wrote the first explicitly background music, which he called \ldblquote Furniture Music,\rdblquote  including his famous }{\i\fs20 Vexations}{\fs20 , which contains a passage repeated 840 times.
\par Answer:\tab Erik-Alfred-Leslie }{\b\fs20 Satie}{\fs20 
\par 2. After an accident left him bedridden and unable to turn up his stereo to hear over a rainstorm, he experimented with the pieces such as }{\i\fs20 Discreet Music}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Music for Airports}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab Brian }{\b\fs20 Eno}{\fs20 
\par 3. This minimalist composer introduced the world to the repetition of }{\i\fs20 In C}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab Terry }{\b\fs20 Riley}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 13. Identify the following philosophers on a 5-10-15 basis:
\par 5. Also known for his work in mathematics, this French philosopher wrote the }{\i\fs20 Lettres provinciales}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab Blaise }{\b\fs20 Pascal}{\fs20 
\par 10. This 1927 Nobel laureate had in interest in biological evolution that inspired his theory of }{\i\fs20 elan vital}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab Henri }{\b\fs20 Bergson}{\fs20 
\par 15. This philosopher has language-centric views that are reflected in such works as }{\i\fs20 Speech and Phenomena}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 On Grammatology}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab Jacques }{\b\fs20 Derrida}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 14. Identify the following African-American poets FTP each.
\par 1. This Dayton, Ohio, poet gained renown for such collections as }{\i\fs20 Oak and Ivy}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Lyrics of Lowly Life}{\fs20 .  He went on to also write short stories and novels before dying of tuberculosis at age 33.
\par Answer:\tab Paul Laurence }{\b\fs20 Dunbar}{\fs20 
\par 2. This poet became a Black nationalist after the assassination of Malcolm X.  He has published collections such as }{\i\fs20 Black Magic}{\fs20  and Preface to a }{\i\fs20 Twenty Volume Suicide Note,}{\fs20  but he has also written plays, such as }{
\i\fs20 Junkies are Full of SHHH...}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Dutchman}{\fs20 .
\par Answer:\tab Amiri }{\b\fs20 Baraka}{\fs20   or  LeRoi }{\b\fs20 Jones}{\fs20 
\par 3. This Jamaican-born poet recalls his homeland in such volumes as }{\i\fs20 Songs of Jamaica}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Constab Ballads}{\fs20 .  The author of }{\i\fs20 Home to Harlem}{\fs20 , he spent some time in Europe before returni
ng and becoming a leader of the Harlem Renaissance.
\par Answer:\tab Festus Claudius (Claude) }{\b\fs20 McKay}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 15. Identify the following related to the history of Southeast Asia for 10 points each:
\par 1. With a name meaning \ldblquote Pacified South\rdblquote  from the Chinese, this region extended nearly 800 miles along the South China Sea between Tonkin on the north and Cochin China on the south, with its capital at Hue [WAY].
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Annam}{\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {2. The empire of Vietnam was established in 1802 by this man, who procured French military aid by ceding Da Nang and the Con Son islands.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 Gia Long }{\fs20 or }{\b\fs20 Nguyen Anh}{\fs20  
\par 3. Early in this country\rquote s history, King Anawratha established control over the Mon capital of Thaton, adopted Hinayana Buddhism from these conquered people, and established his own capital at Pagan.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Burma}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Myanmar}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 16. 30-20-10-5:  name the poet from lines he or she penned.
\par 30. \ldblquote Wake:  the silver dusk returning/ Up the beach of darkness brims,/ And the ship of sunrise burning/ Strands upon the eastern rims.\rdblquote 
\par 20. \ldblquote With rue my heart is laden/ For golden friends I had,/ For many a rose-lipt maiden/ And many a lightfoot lad.\rdblquote 
\par 10. \ldblquote And round that early-laurelled head/ Will flock to gaze the strengthless dead,/ And find unwithered on its curls/ The garland briefer than a girl\rquote s curls.\rdblquote 
\par 5. \ldblquote Terence, this is stupid stuff:/ You eat your victuals fast enough;/ There can't be much amiss, \lquote tis clear,/ To see the rate you drink your beer.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab A. E. }{\b\fs20 Housman}{\fs20  \tab [The poems are \ldblquote Reveille,\rdblquote  \ldblquote With Rue My Heart is Laden,\rdblquote  \ldblquote To an Athlete Dying Young,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Terence, This is Stupid Stuff\rdblquote ]

\par 
\par 17. Identify the following concerning the work of Carl Jung
\par 15. For five points, identify }{\b\fs20 both}{\fs20  of the different attitudes about social interaction he discerned and, for ten points, the 1921 book he published about them.
\par Answers:  }{\b\fs20 introvert}{\fs20 ed and }{\b\fs20 extrovert}{\fs20 ed  (for 5) and  }{\b\fs20 Psychologische Typen}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Psychological Types }{\fs20 (for 10)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {5. For five points, he had an influential dream in which he was followed around by a small, dark friend.  What did he call the archetype of which his little buddy was a manifestation?
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab the }{\b\fs20 shadow}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {10. Jung got into all sorts of crazy mysticism and thought that this eastern symbol was about the greatest ever.  For ten points, identify this design, Sanskrit for \ldblquote circle.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 mandala}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 18. Nobel Peace prize winners often come in twos.  For 10 points for each pair, identify these winners:
\par 1. This pair won the most recent award \ldblquote for their efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in Northern Ireland.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab John }{\b\fs20 Hume}{\fs20  and David }{\b\fs20 Trimble}{\fs20  
\par 2. These men won in 1996 \ldblquote for their work towards a just and peaceful solution to the conflict in East Timor.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab Carlos Filipe Ximenes }{\b\fs20 Belo}{\fs20  and Jos\'e9 Ramos-}{\b\fs20 Horta}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 3. These leaders won in 1978 \ldblquote for jointly negotiating peace between Egypt and Israel.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab Menachem }{\b\fs20 Begin}{\fs20  and Anwar el-}{\b\fs20 Sadat}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 19. Identify these positional terms used in astronomy starting with the same letter for 10 points each:
\par 1. This seven-letter term refers to the angular distance of a body measured westward along the celestial horizon from the observer\rquote s south point.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 azimuth}{\fs20 
\par 2. This eight-letter term refers to the point farthest from the sun in the orbit of a body about the sun.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 aphelion}{\fs20 
\par 3. This six-letter term is the point farthest from the earth in the orbit of a body about the earth.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 apogee}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 20. Identify the creators of these literary characters for the stated number of points:
\par 5. Anna Karenina\tab 
\par Answer:\tab Leo }{\b\fs20 Tolstoy}{\fs20\ul 
\par }{\fs20 5. Miss Julie
\par Answer:\tab August }{\b\fs20 Strindberg}{\fs20 
\par 10. Ann Vickers
\par Answer:\tab Harry Sinclair }{\b\fs20 Lewis}{\fs20 
\par 10. Gosta Berlings and Nils, who has wonderful adventures
\par Answer:\tab Selma }{\b\fs20 Lagerlof}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 21. Answer the following questions about Norse mythology FTP each.
\par 1.  What is the name of the World Tree which holds the universe together?
\par Answer:\tab Ask }{\b\fs20 Yggdrasil}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Hoddmimir's Wood}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Laerad}{\fs20   
\par 2. For 10 points, what is the squirrel that runs up and down the tree?
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Ratatosk}{\fs20 
\par 3. For a final 10 points, what is the serpent that lives in Niflheim and gnaws at the roots of the tree?  His name means \ldblquote tearer of corpses.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Nidhogg}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 22. Given a Biblical quote, identify the book and the chapter from which it comes, 5 points per part.
\par 1.\ldblquote To everything there is a season and a time for every purpose under Heaven.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab The Book of }{\b\fs20 Ecclesiastes}{\fs20 , Chapter }{\b\fs20 3}{\fs20 
\par 2. \ldblquote Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of Heaven.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab The Gospel According to }{\b\fs20 Matthew}{\fs20 , Chapter }{\b\fs20 5}{\fs20 
\par 3. \ldblquote In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:\tab The Gospel According to }{\b\fs20 John}{\fs20 , Chapter }{\b\fs20 1}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 23. Given a defeated Democratic candidate for President of the U.S., name his vice presidential running mate, for 10 points apiece.
\par 1. Adlai Stevenson, 1952
\par Answer:\tab John J. }{\b\fs20 Sparkman}{\fs20 
\par 2. William Jennings Bryan, 1900
\par Answer:\tab Adlai E. }{\b\fs20 Stevenson}{\fs20 
\par 3. John W. Davis, 1924
\par Answer:\tab Charles W. }{\b\fs20 Bryan}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 24. 20}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century artists FTP each.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {1. The crazy guy who wraps buildings and calls it art, he\rquote s also set up thousands of umbrellas under the same pretense.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Christo Javacheff  }{\fs20 (}{\b\fs20 either}{\fs20  name is fine)
\par 2. Born in Lithuania in 1906, this dude was getting\rquote  jiggy with works like }{\i\fs20 The Passion of Sacco and Vanzetti}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Ben }{\b\fs20 Shahn}{\fs20 
\par 3. This wife of Robert Motherwell thought she was all cool when she developed her \ldblquote soak-stain\rdblquote  technique. Her paintings include }{\i\fs20 Bay Side}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Mountains and Sea}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Helen }{\b\fs20 Frankenthaler}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 25. Identify the following ancient Mesopotamian cities for 10 points each:
\par 1. Thoroughly excavated by Leonard Woolley, this must have been founded around the fourth millenium BCE.  About one thousand years later, it was the capital of Sumer.  The last king to build on it was Cyrus the Great,
\par after which it fell into neglect.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Ur}{\fs20 
\par 2. North of Sumer, this city was founded by Sargon around 2300 BCE.  Using a cuneiform script, its inhabitants spoke the oldest preserved Semitic language.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Akkad}{\fs20 
\par 3. This capital of Assyria was home to legendary kings like Sennacherib, perhaps the first urban planner, and Ashurbanipal, who built a magnificent library there.
\par Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Nineveh}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 26. Identify these players in the citric acid cycle for 10 points each:
\par 1. In cleaving the energy-rich thioester of succinyl Co-A to yield succinate, one of these high-energy molecules in produced.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 GTP}{\fs20   or  }{\b\fs20 guanosine triphosphate}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 2. This enzyme, which contains an iron-sulfur complex, catalyzes the isomerization of citrate to isocitrate early in the cycle.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 aconitase}{\fs20 
\par 3. In converting a molecule of succinate to fumarate, two electrons are transferred to this cofactor.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 FAD}{\fs20   or  }{\b\fs20 flavin adenine dinucleotide}{\fs20 
\par  
\par 27. Identify the following battles from the Mexican-American war.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {10. For ten points, the first major battle of the war took place at this city near the Rio Grande.  It is also the name of a California college town in Santa Clara county.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Palo Alto}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {5. For five points, the first step on the road to Mexico City was this harbor, which Scott beseiged on March 9, 1847.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Vera Cruz}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {5. For five points, the first serious resistance Scott met during the war was this town further inland toward Mexico City.  Santa Anna's army lost and ran after a successful flanking man
euver led by Robert E. Lee.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Cerro Gordo}{\fs20 
\par 10. For ten points, this battle, during which Taylor repulsed the superior numbers of Santa Anna, was the bloodiest of the war.
\par Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Buena Vista}{\fs20   or  }{\b\fs20 Angostura}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 28. 30-20-10-5:  name the author from characters, 5 for some titles.
\par 30. Gilbert Pinfold, Helena
\par 20. Dr. Augustus Fagan, Tony Last
\par 10. Sebastian Flyte, Charles Ryder
\par 5. }{\i\fs20 Brideshead Revisited}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 A Handful of Dust}{\fs20 
\par Answer:\tab Evelyn Arthur St. John }{\b\fs20 Waugh}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 29. Identify these Schiller plays from descriptions FTP each.
\par 1. In this play, Karl Moor is cheated out of an inheritance by his brother, and he assembles a group to take revenge. 
\par Answer:\tab The }{\b\fs20 Robbers}{\fs20 
\par 2. This somewhat historically accurate play details a conflict between two one-time queens of England.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Mary Stuart}{\fs20 
\par 3. This romantic tragedy deviates from actual history, as the title female character is killed in battle.
\par Answer:\tab The }{\b\fs20 Maid of Orleans}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 30. Identify these scientists involved in the early studies of electromagnetism for 10 points each:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {
1. This physicist and chemist found that a magnetic needle is deflected at right angles to a conductor carrying an electric current and established a relationship between magnetism and electricity, initiating the study of electro
magnetism.  The unit of magnetic field strength in the c-g-s system is named for him.   
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 Answer:\tab Hans Christian }{\b\fs20 Oersted}{\fs20 
\par 2. He invented and operated the first electromagnetic telegraph, discovered self-inductance, and showed that an induced current can be used to induce another current in a nearby circuit.
\par Answer:\tab Joseph }{\b\fs20 Henry}{\fs20 
\par 3. This law named for two French scientists says that the magnetic induction near a long, straight conductor varies inversely as the distance from the conductor and directly as the intensity of the current in the conductor.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b\fs20 Biot-Savart}{\fs20  Law  [BEE-oh suh-VAR]
\par }}