{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title ACF Regionals 1999}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords3531}{\nofchars20130}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws24721}{\vern89}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\f0 1999 ACF Regionals 
\par Questions by Chicago A
\par Tossups
\par 
\par }{\f0 1. Thirteen years after its first appearance, it was made into an opera by Louis Gruenberg with a libretto by Kathleen de Jaffa.  The main character flees his palace and, while wandering in the jungle, ha
llucinates that he is being sold at an auction before being shot to death with silver bullets.  FTP, identify this 1920 play, which is set on an island in the West Indies ruled by a former Pullman porter, a work of Eugene O'Neill.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Emperor Jones}{\f0 
\par 
\par 2. In addition to proving several of Fermat's theorems, he solved the problem of finding an integer x such that the quantity n times x squared plus one is a square if n is another non-square integer.  At the age of 19, he became a professor at the Royal 
Artillery School in Turin, and in 1766 he succeeded Euler as Director of the Berlin Academy of Sciences.  FTP, name this French mathematician, who used the calculus of variations and of four-dimensional space to treat mechanics in his best known work, }{
\i\f0 Analytical Mechanics}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Joseph Louis, Count }{\b\f0 Lagrange}{\f0 
\par 
\par 3. This empire was ruled from its capital at Pataliputra, now the city of Patna.  Founded by the king of Magadha who, from his home of Bihar, drove out the Greeks, it fell to the Sungas in 187 BC. FTP
, identify this empire, whose third ruler accepted Buddhism, which was founded by Chandragupta and which ruled India for 150 years.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 Mauryan}{\f0  empire
\par 
\par 4. Along with Saint-Saens, he completed Guiraud's unfinished opera }{\i\f0 Fredegonde}{\f0 .  After his cantata }{\i\f0 Velleda}{\f0  won the second Prix de Rome, he became music critic for the }{\i\f0 Revue Hebdomadaire}{\f0 
, and his works include a Symphony in C, }{\i\f0 Variations, Interlude and Fugue on a Theme of Rameau}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 La Peri }{\f0 (pay-ree), a ballet.  FTP, identify this composer, who is best known for an opera, }{\i\f0 Ariane and Bluebeard}{\f0 
, and an orchestral scherzo made famous in }{\i\f0 Fantasia}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 The Sorcerer's Apprentice}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Paul }{\b\f0 Dukas}{\f0  
\par 
\par 5. The eighth of them is also known as "Pharmaceutria," for its magical refrains, while the sixth is derivative o
f Lucretius and known as the "Song of Silenus."  The tenth one is dedicated to Gallus, while the fourth, which predicts the birth of a child who will bring peace to the world, is thought to prophecy Christ's birth.  FTP, identify this group of ten poems, 
based on the idylls of Theocritus and written between 43 and 37 BC by Virgil.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 Bucolics}{\f0  or the }{\b\f0 Eclogues}{\f0 
\par 
\par 6. It is part of an archipelago and consists of three main islands, Mwali, Nzwami, and Njazidja.  The country's first constitution was passed
 under President Ahmed Abdallah Abderemane in 1978, and after a crisis caused by his assassination in 1989, the country's first democratic elections were held in 1992.  FTP, identify this nation, whose cities include Mutsumudu and Moroni, located, along w
ith the island of Mayotte, in the Mozambique Channel.
\par Answer: the Federal Islamic Republic of the }{\b\f0 Comoros}{\f0 
\par 
\par 7. It is prepared by the hydrolysis of ethanal cyanohydrin, or through the oxidation of propan-1,2-diol with dilute nitric acid.  An alpha hydroxy car
boxylic acid, it is produced in the human body from pyruvic acid, and ends up in the liver where it is converted to glucose.  FTP, identify this chemical compound, technically known as 2-hydroxypropanoic acid, which causes cramping pains when it builds up
 in muscle tissue during exercise, and whose name reflects the fact that it is manufactured by fermenting a milk sugar.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 lactic}{\f0  acid (accept }{\b\f0 2-hydroxypropanoic}{\f0  acid before it is mentioned)
\par 
\par 8. Its divisions include "Perpetuity," "A.P.R.," "Nature is 
corrupt," "Proofs of Moses," "Wretchedness," and "Boredom."  Number 233 confesses that the "eternal silence of these infinite spaces terrifies me," while Number 32 states that "If Cleopatra's nose had been shorter, the whole face of the world would have c
hanged."  FTP, identify this fragmentary philosophical work, which also compares man to a "thinking reed" and formulates a famous wager, a collection compiled in 1670 from notes left by Blaise Pascal.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Pensees}{\f0  (pahn-say) or }{\b\f0 Thoughts}{\f0 
\par 
\par 9. He fought at 
South Mountain, Antietam, and Cedar Creek, and was breveted a major in 1865, only four years before he was elected prosecuting attorney of Stark County.  Elected to Congress in 1876, he was an advocate of high tariffs, and the tariff bill he sponsored in 
1890 led to his defeat that year, after which he became governor of his state.  FTP, name this Republican, who served two terms as governor of Ohio before becoming the 25th President, who twice defeated Bryan before being assassinated in 1901
\par .Answer: William }{\b\f0 McKinley}{\f0  
\par 
\par 10. He first came to America in 1883, as part of an expedition sent to study native culture on Baffin Island.  Three years later, he became a professor at Clark University, from which he studied the natives of British Columbia.  FTP, identify
 this author of }{\i\f0 Race and Democratic Society}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Anthropology and Modern Life}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 The Mind of Primitive Man}{\f0 
, a longtime teacher of anthropology at Columbia University whose students included Ruth Benedict, Zora Neale Hurston, and Margaret Mead.
\par Answer: Franz }{\b\f0 Boas}{\f0 
\par 
\par 11. In the 1950's, he began a series of "Contemporary Chronicles" which includes }{\i\f0 Chosen Country}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Century's Ebb}{\f0 .  The author of such plays as }{\i\f0 Airways, Inc}{\f0 . and }{\i\f0 The Garbage Man}{\f0 
, he began a trilogy about the Spotswood family in 1939 which included }{\i\f0 The Grand Design}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Number One}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 Adventures of a Young Man}{\f0 .  FTP, name this novelist of the }{\i\f0 District of Columbia}{\f0 
 trilogy whose other works include }{\i\f0 Three Soldiers}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Manhattan Transfer}{\f0 .
\par Answer: John }{\b\f0 Dos Passos}{\f0 
\par 
\par 12. In 1998, a sequel to this film was release
d direct-to-video.  The new film is set in Thorn Valley and features Timmy, whose voice is provided by Ralph Macchio.  It also features Dom DeLuise in a reprise of his role from the original as Jeremy, the talking crow. FTP, identify this 1982 film, which
 featured the voices of the young Wil Wheaton and Shannon Doherty, an animated movie about the Brisby family, a group of mice who move their house to the lee of the stone with the help of some superintelligent rodents.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Secret of NIMH}{\f0 
\par 
\par 13. The co
efficient named after him is 1 over the quantity n times e, where e is the electronic charge and n is the number of charge carriers per unit volume.  When this co-efficient is multiplied by the current density and the magnetic flux density, the result is 
t
he strength of the electric field produced within a conductor subjected to a strong transverse magnetic field.  FTP, identify the scientist after whom this effect is named, in which the potential difference develops at right angles to both the current and
 the field.
\par Answer: Edwin }{\b\f0 Hall}{\f0  (accept the }{\b\f0 Hall}{\f0  effect)
\par 
\par 14. Alexander Hamilton supported it in his "Camillus" papers, and it was eventually agreed to after Article XII, which related to trade in the West Indies, was suspended.  It agreed to refer pre-war d
ebts to a joint commission, which eventually determined that the U.S. owed $2,664,000, and gave the U.S. most-favored-nation trading status.  FTP, identify this treaty, which was signed on November 19, 1794, by the Chief Justice who had been named special
 ambassador to Great Britain.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Jay}{\f0 's Treaty
\par 
\par 15. Mrs. Wimbush is a devoted spiritualist, while her husband spends his time reading to everyone from his history of the titular house.  Mr. Scogan is obsessed with his plans for a Utopian "Rational State
."  The main character is Denis Stone, a poet whose verse is featured in the novel.  FTP, identify this 1921 satire, a colorful work by Aldous Huxley.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Crome Yellow}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16. He began as an apprentice cameo cutter in New York City, but after taking night classes at Cooper Union went to Paris, where he enrolled in the Ecole des Beaux Arts (ay-coal day bo ar).  His early works include }{\i\f0 Hiawatha}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Silence}
{\f0 , and a likeness of William Maxwell Evarts, but he gained fame with a portrayal of Admiral Farragut that was placed in Madison Square.  FTP, identify this Irish-American sculptor of the }{\i\f0 Adams Memorial}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Amor Caritas}{\f0 
, and equestrian statues of Generals Logan and Sherman, best known for his 1897 work, the Boston memorial to Colonel Shaw.
\par Answer: Augustus }{\b\f0 Saint-Gaudens}{\f0 
\par 
\par 17. The third epistle attributed to him rebukes an arrogant church leader named Diotrephes, while the first two attack false teachings, especially Gnosticism.  Often represented holding a chalice with a serpent coming out of it, he was said to have b
rought the Virgin Mary back to Ephesus after the Crucifixion.  FTP, identify this "beloved apostle," the son of Zebedee and brother of St. James who was held to have written the fourth book of the New Testament.
\par Answer: Saint }{\b\f0 John}{\f0 
\par 
\par 18. They have a life spa
n of about four months, after which time they are destroyed in the spleen and liver.  In most vertebrates, they are nucleated ovoids, but in mammals they are disc-shaped and without nuclei.  FTP, identify this type of cell, which contains the pigment hemo
globin, and which is the most numerous type of blood cell, developing from erythroblasts.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 erythrocyte}{\f0 s (accept }{\b\f0 red blood cell}{\f0  on early buzz)
\par 
\par 19. On April 27, four days before the battle, a squadron of four cruisers and two gunboats left Mirs Bay in
 China.  After destroying the fleet which had been laying off Cavite Point, the Americans settled into a blockade which ended in August, when General Wesley Merritt received the surrender.  FTP, identify this battle of 1898, in which Spain was defeated by
 a force led by Admiral Dewey, clearing the way for American occupation of the Philippines.
\par Answer: the battle of }{\b\f0 Manila Bay}{\f0 
\par 
\par 20. His plays include }{\i\f0 The Living Room}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The Complaisant Lover}{\f0 , and his short stories are collected in }{\i\f0 May We Borrow Your Husband?}{\f0 .}{\i\f0   }{\f0 Switzerland is the setting for his }{\i\f0 
Doctor Fischer of Geneva or the Bomb Party}{\f0 , while }{\i\f0 The Human Factor}{\f0  is set in South Africa and World War II. London is set setting for both }{\i\f0 The End of the Affair}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The Ministry of Fear}{\f0 
.  FTP, identify this British author of }{\i\f0 The Quiet American}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Brighton Rock}{\f0 , best known for such novels as }{\i\f0 Our Man in Havana}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The Heart of the Matter}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Graham }{\b\f0 Greene}{\f0 
\par 
\par 21. He moved to London at the age of 21, as he describes in his autobiographical }{\i\f0 A Man from the North}{\f0 , and took hack writing jobs such as editing a woman's magazine and producing "Pocket Philosophies" such as }{\i\f0 
How to Live on 24 Hours a Day}{\f0 .  The author of such novels as }{\i\f0 Buried Alive}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 The Card}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 Riceyman Steps}{\f0 , he made his name with a 1902 novel based on the Potte
ries region of the English midlands in which he was raised.  FTP, name this novelist, best known for }{\i\f0 Clayhanger}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 The Old Wives' Tale}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 Anna of the Five Towns}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Arnold }{\b\f0 Bennett
\par 
\par }{\f0 22. The first phase of it began in 1800, with meetings in Gaspar River
 and Cane Ridge, Kentucky.  The second phase began 26 years later, and was marked by the New Measure, whose features included the anxious bench, identification of people by name, and a role for women.  FTP, identify this movement, whose better known secon
d wave spread out of upstate New York, a religious reform led by Charles Finney.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 Second Great Awakening}{\f0 
\par 
\par 23. At the age of 80, he published his best-known work, an analysis of over 700 cases written up as 70 letters to a friend.  The first man t
o describe tuberculosis of the kidney and syphilitic tumors of the brain, he found that a paralysis that only affects one side of the body is caused by a lesion on the other side of the brain.  FTP, name this Italian anatomist, who never used a microscope
 but related the lesions found during autopsies to illnesses, making him the founder of modern pathology.
\par Answer: Giovanni }{\b\f0 Morgagni}{\f0 
\par  
\par 24. In 1929, he went to New York City, where he performed with Red Nichols and Irving Aaronson.  In 1934, he joined Benny Goodman's band, and after gaining fame for his work on }{\i\f0 Sing, Sing, Sing}{\f0 
, left four years later to start his own band.  FTP, identify this jazz musician, who also played with Tommy Dorsey, a percussionist whose lengthy solos helped popularize drums.
\par Answer: Gene }{\b\f0 Krupa
\par 
\par }{\f0 25. One man of this name was the son of Pandion and the father of fifty sons who tried to steal the throne of Athens from his brother, Aegeus, but was killed in the attempt.  According to one legend, a giant of this name tried to rape Athena, a
fter which she flayed him and took his wings.  FTP, give this name from Greek myth, which was shared by a daughter of Triton who was accidentally killed by Athena, after which she took her name as an epithet.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Pallas}{\f0 
\par 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Chicago A}{\f0 
\par }{\b\f0 Bonuses
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Identify these Presidents from one of their secretaries of state FTP each.  If you need another clue about them, you will receive 5 points.
\par 1. 10.  William Evarts
\par       5.  William Wheeler served as Vice President to this President who should have lost to Tilden.
\par Answer: Rutherford Birchard }{\b\f0 Hayes}{\f0 
\par 2. 10.  Robert Smith
\par       5.  His better known secretary of state was James Monroe.
\par Answer: James }{\b\f0 Madison}{\f0 
\par 3. 10.  William Marcy
\par       5.  William Rufus King was his Vice President, and possibly his gay lover.
\par Answer: Franklin }{\b\f0 Pierce}{\f0 
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following vitamins FTP each.
\par 1.  Its technical name is cyanocobalamin, and requires intrinsic factor in order to be absorbed; lack of this factor causes pernicious anemia.
\par Answer: vitamin }{\b\f0 B 12}{\f0 
\par 2.  It is manufactured as a response to parathyroid hormone, and increases the calcium supply available for bone synthesis.
\par Answer: vitamin }{\b\f0 D}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 calciferol}{\f0 
\par 3.  This vitamin is a precursor to a coenzyme necessary for carbohydrate metabolism, and deficiency of it causes polyneuritis in birds, as well as beriberi in humans.
\par Answer: vitamin }{\b\f0 B 1}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 thiamine}{\f0   
\par 
\par 3. Identify these subjects of famous analyses by Sigmund Freud, FTP each.
\par 1.  He was really Sergei Pankejeff, a Russian nobleman.  After his first session, 
he told Freud that he wanted to have anal sex with him and then shit on his head, but Freud eventually determined that his infantile neurosis was caused by having seen his parents have sex when he was one and a half years old.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 Wolf Man}{\f0 
\par 2.  Although Freud never met this judge, he analyzed him based on the }{\i\f0 Memoirs of a Neuropath}{\f0 
 that he published to get out of an asylum.  Freud determined that his paranoia was caused by a "homosexual wish-fantasy of loving a man," which led him to hallucinate that he was a woman.
\par Answer: Daniel }{\b\f0 Schreber}{\f0 
\par 3.  His real name was Ernst Lanzer.  He went into analysis after hearing a story which tormented him about a torture in which the victim was tied down, and a pot with a certain kind of animal in it was turned upside
 down onto his buttocks, after which they would burrow into the victim's anus.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 Rat Man}{\f0 
\par 
\par 4. Identify these Doctors of the Church, FTP each.
\par 1.  One of the four great Latin doctors was this Bishop of Milan, who fought with Empress Theodora over Arianism.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ambrose}{\f0 
\par 2.  One of the four great Greek doctors was this Bishop of Caesarea, who fought with the emperor Valens over Arianism, and who entered a monastery on the urgings of his sister Macrina.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Basil}{\f0  the Great
\par 3.  One of the only two female Doctors of the Church, this Dominican was prompted by a vision to go to Avignon in 1376 and persuade Pope Gregory XI to return to Rome.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Catherine}{\f0  of Siena
\par 
\par 5. Name these American inventors on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10.  Obed Hussey invented a machine similar to the one that made him famous, but he patented his first, in 1834.
\par       5.  That machine was the mechanical reaper.
\par Answer: Cyrus }{\b\f0 McCormick}{\f0 
\par 2. 10.  He improved on a machine that had already been improved on by Allen Wilson, and along with Edward Clark, opened a plant to manufacture them in 1853.
\par       5.  The machine he improved had been invented by Elias Howe.
\par Answer: Isaac Merritt }{\b\f0 Singer}{\f0 
\par 3. 10.  The inventor of the electric voting machine, his favorite flower was the heliotrope.
\par       5.  He did not invent the electric hammer, but he did invent a phonograph, a kinetoscope, and some other useful stuff.
\par Answer: Thomas }{\b\f0 Edison}{\f0  
\par 
\par 6. Identify these poems by William Wordsworth, FTP each.
\par 1.  In this poem in twenty stanzas, the poet gets dejected thinking about the fate of Chatterton and Burns before meeting an old leech-gatherer who cheers him up.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Resolution and Independence}{\f0 
\par 2.  This poem, a response to the poet's own "Expostulation and Reply," states that books are "a dull and endless strife" and includes the famous line "We murder to dissect."
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Tables Turned}{\f0 
\par 3.  Its actual title is "Lines Composed a Few Miles Above" the place whose name has come to identify the poem, which was written on revisiting the banks of the Wye during a tour.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Tintern Abbey}{\f0 
\par 
\par 7. Identify these Supreme Court cases of the nineteenth century FTP each.
\par 1.  After a Baltimore secessionist was arrested, he petitioned for a writ of habeas corpus which was rejected by the military commander.  Taney issued this opinion, stating the President could not suspend the writ.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ex Parte Merryman}{\f0 
\par 2.  In this 1833 case, Marshall stated that the Bill of Rights was not binding on state governments.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Barron v. Baltimore}{\f0 
\par 3.  In this case, the cashier of the Baltimore branch of the National Bank was sued after the bank refused to pay a $15,000 tax.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 McCulloch v. Maryland}{\f0 
\par 
\par 8. Answer these questions about a Norse god FTP each.
\par 1.  Originally a member of the Vanir, this god of fertility and rain became a member of the Aesir after the war between the two groups of gods.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Frey}{\f0 
\par 2.  Frey was the son of this god of the sea.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Njord}{\f0 
\par 3.  Frey's prized possessions included this magical ship, which he could fold up as if it were a tent.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Skithbathnir}{\f0 
\par 
\par 9. Identify these types of colloids FTP each.
\par 1.  These are dispersion of small solid particles, such as macromolecules or clusters of smaller molecules, in a liquid.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 sol}{\f0 s
\par 2.  These are colloids in which both the continuous and dispersed phases have a three-dimensional network throughout.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 gel}{\f0 s
\par 3.  In these colloids, both the dispersed and continuous systems are liquids, like oil and water.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 emulsion}{\f0 s
\par 
\par 10. Identify these twentieth century artists from works FTP each.
\par 1.  Works by this Swiss sculptor include }{\i\f0 Metamechanicals}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Homage to New York}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Jean }{\b\f0 Tinguely}{\f0 
\par 2.  Although he died at the age of 34, this French painter is remembered for abstract works like }{\i\f0 Monochromes}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Yves }{\b\f0 Klein}{\f0 
\par 3.  This American sculptor is known for such works as }{\i\f0 Times Square}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Cinema}{\f0 .
\par Answer: George }{\b\f0 Segal}{\f0 
\par 
\par 11. Identify the dramatists from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10.  }{\i\f0 As You Desire Me}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The Mountain Giants}{\f0 
\par       5.  }{\i\f0 Six Characters in Search of an Author}{\f0 
\par Answer: Luigi }{\b\f0 Pirandello}{\f0 
\par 2. 10.  }{\i\f0 Within the Gates}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Red Roses for Me}{\f0 
\par       5.  }{\i\f0 Juno and the Paycock}{\f0 
\par Answer: Sean }{\b\f0 O'Casey}{\f0 
\par 3. 10.  }{\i\f0 In the Jungle of Cities}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Drums in the Night}{\f0 
\par       5.  }{\i\f0 Mother Courage and her Children}{\f0 
\par Answer: Bertolt }{\b\f0 Brecht}{\f0 
\par 
\par 12. Answer these questions about the North African campaign in World War II FTP each.
\par 1.  On November 4, 1942, Rommel's defeat at this battle forced the Germans to retreat from Egypt.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 El Alamein}{\f0 
\par 2.  This was the code name for the Allied amphibious assault on North Africa launched four days after El Alamein.
\par Answer: Operation }{\b\f0 Torch}{\f0 
\par 3.  The last significant victory for Rommel came on February 14, 1943, when the American's Second Corps under Fredendall was repulsed by the Afrika Korps here.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Kasserine Pass}{\f0  
\par 
\par 13. Identify these countries from their second largest cities, for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  Bergen
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Norway}{\f0 
\par 5. Guayaquil
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ecuador}{\f0  
\par 10.  Songkhla
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Thailand}{\f0 
\par 10.  Mashad
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Iran}{\f0 
\par 
\par 14. Identify the composer, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  He entered the Milan Conservatory at the age of 9.  While there, he collaborated on the operetta }{\i\f0 Il sindaco babbeo}{\f0  and wrote the symphony }{\i\f0 Scena campestre}{\f0 .
\par 20.  While church organist at Cremona in 1856, he produced his first opera, }{\i\f0 I promessi sposi}{\f0 .
\par 10.  He is best known for the opera }{\i\f0 La Gioconda}{\f0 , which includes the famous "Dance of the Hours."
\par Answer: Amilcare }{\b\f0 Ponchielli}{\f0 
\par 
\par 15. Identify the authors of these books written in eighteenth-century America, FTP each.
\par 1.  This English born actress and Boston teacher wrote the second American novel, }{\i\f0 Charlotte Temple}{\f0 , in 1790.
\par Answer: Susanna }{\b\f0 Rowson}{\f0 
\par 2.  This jurist is best known for his satirical work }{\i\f0 Modern Chivalry}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Hugh Henry }{\b\f0 Brackenridge}{\f0 
\par 3.  In 1800, he wrote a }{\i\f0 Life of Washington}{\f0  that introduced the story about the cherry tree.
\par Answer: Parson Mason L. }{\b\f0 Weems}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16. Identify these endangered mammals for ten points from their scientific names, or 5 if you need another clue.
\par 1. 10. }{\i\f0 Pongo pygmaeus}{\f0 
\par       5.  This big ape is now found almost entirely on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 orangutan}{\f0 
\par 2. 10. }{\i\f0 Acinonyx jubatus}{\f0 
\par       5. These big cats almost went extinct before, causing a "genetic bottleneck" which led to a dangerous lack of variability.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 cheetah}{\f0 
\par 3. 10. }{\i\f0 Ailuropoda melanoleuca}{\f0 
\par       5. It lives on bamboo and is notoriously difficult to breed in captivity.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 giant panda
\par }{\f0 
\par 17. Identify the directors from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10. }{\i\f0 Scarlet Street}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The Big Heat}{\f0 
\par       5. }{\i\f0 M}{\f0 
\par Answer: Fritz }{\b\f0 Lang}{\f0 
\par 2. 10. }{\i\f0 The Diary of a Chambermaid}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The River}{\f0 
\par       5. }{\i\f0 Grand Illusion}{\f0 
\par Answer: Jean }{\b\f0 Renoir}{\f0 
\par 3. 10. }{\i\f0 The Stars Look Down}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Odd Man Out}{\f0 
\par       5. }{\i\f0 Oliver!}{\f0 
\par Answer: Carol }{\b\f0 Reed}{\f0 
\par 
\par 18. Answer these questions about the end of the Mexican-American War, FTP each.
\par 1.  In May 1847, this State Department clerk arrived in Vera Cruz with orders to reach a peace settlement.
\par Answer: Nicholas }{\b\f0 Trist}{\f0 
\par 2.  Prior to capturing Maxico City, Winfield Scott assaulted this fortified hill which commanded the roads leading to the capital's western gates.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Chapultepec}{\f0 
\par 3.  After Santa Ana fled the country, this man was elected interim President of Mexico, and his government negotiated the treaty of Guadelupe-Hidalgo with Trist.
\par Answer: Pedro Maria }{\b\f0 Anaya}{\f0 
\par 
\par 19. Identify the following kinds of defects in crystals FTP each.
\par 1.  This is a vacancy in which the missing ion or atom has moved into an interstitial position.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Frenkel}{\f0  defect
\par 2.  This is the general term for any defect in which a missing ion or atom creates a vacancy in the lattice, or in which an extra ion or atom creates an interstitial.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 point}{\f0  defect
\par 3.  This is the term for a defect caused by multiple adjacent point defects, which create a slip along a surface.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 line}{\f0  defect
\par 
\par 20. Identify these Southern authors of the nineteenth century, for the stated number of points.
\par 5. This once-popular humorist is now best remembered for his creation of Uncle Remus.
\par Answer: Joel Chandler }{\b\f0 Harris}{\f0 
\par 10. This chronicler of Creole life is best remembered for his 1880 novel }{\i\f0 The Grandissimes}{\f0 .
\par Answer: George Washington }{\b\f0 Cable}{\f0 
\par 15. This Kentuckian is hardly remembered at all, but his novels include }{\i\f0 Summer in Arcady}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 A Kentucky Cardinal}{\f0 .
\par Answer: James Lane }{\b\f0 Allen}{\f0 
\par 
\par 21. Name the American composers of the following operas, FTP each.
\par 1.  }{\i\f0 The Tender Land}{\f0 
\par Answer: Aaron }{\b\f0 Copland}{\f0 
\par 2.  }{\i\f0 The Consul}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 The Saint of Bleecker Street}{\f0 
\par Answer: Gian-Carlo }{\b\f0 Menotti}{\f0 
\par 3.  }{\i\f0 Trial at Rouen}{\f0 
\par Answer: Norman }{\b\f0 Dello Joio}{\f0 
\par 
\par 22. Identify the following women from the early history of the Roman Empire, FTP each.
\par 1.  The daughter of Germanicus, she persuaded her husband Claudius to name Nero his successor.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Agrippina}{\f0 
\par 2.  In order to please Poppea, Nero had this woman, his wife, murdered.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Octavia}{\f0 
\par 3.  This wife of Augustus caused the deaths of countless members of the royal family, if Robert Graves is to be believed.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Livia}{\f0  
\par 
\par 23. Identify these female relatives of Oedipus FTP each.
\par 1.  She and Antigone are Oedipus's daughters.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ismene}{\f0 
\par 2.  This wife of Polybus is Oedipus's adoptive mother.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Merope}{\f0 
\par 3.  This wife of Creon, who kills herself after the death of her son Haemon, is Oedipus's sister-in-law.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Eurydice
\par 
\par }{\f0 24. Identify these winners of National Book Critics Circle Awards for general nonfiction FTP each.
\par 1.  This author of }{\i\f0 Common Ground: A Turbulent Decade in the Lives of Three American Families}{\f0  committed suicide in 1998.
\par Answer: J. Anthony }{\b\f0 Lukas}{\f0 
\par 2.  This novelist, the husband of Louise Erdrich, also committed suicide recently.  He won in 1989 for }{\i\f0 The Broken Cord}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Michael }{\b\f0 Dorris}{\f0 
\par 3.  This author of a biography of Keats and }{\i\f0 The Burden of the Past and the English Poet}{\f0  won the 1977 prize for his biography of Samuel Johnson.
\par Answer: Walter Jackson }{\b\f0 Bate}{\f0 
\par }}