{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 
footnote reference;}}{\info{\title Tossups by Case Western Reserve University (Anthony de Jesus)}{\author Anthony de Jesus}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}
{\nofwords5467}{\nofchars31167}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws38275}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions mostly by Case Western Reserve University (Anthony de Jesus), and also Columbia
\par Tossups
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {1. This constant is based on the simplification that the nucleus of an atom is almost infinitely more massive than a single orbiting elect
ron, hence it is often symbolized by a letter with the infinity symbol as a subscript. The shortest wavelength in the Balmer series is four divided by this quantity. Taking a value of 109,677.58 reciprocal centimeters, for ten points, name this fundamenta
l constant of atomic physics developed in 1890 by a Swedish physicist and usually symbolized by a capital R.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Rydberg }{constant
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {2. This treaty sent a claim on the San Juan Islands to the German emperor. It granted British fishing rights north of the 
39th parallel and U.S. fishing rights off the coasts of Quebec, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island. It also provided for a special court in Geneva, Switzerland to arbitrate the }{\i Alabama }{
Claims. For ten points, name this 1871 treaty, negotiated by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish, and signed by the U.S. and Great Britain in a world capital.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: Treaty of }{\b Washington}{
\par 
\par 3. The son of a tax official, his work was greatly influenced by intellectual, rigorously moralistic Jansenist philosophy, and Greek and Latin classics. His first play, the }{\i Thebaid}{, was performed by Moliere's company in 1664 and his second, }{\i 
Alexandre}{, the following year. FTP name this playwright, whose great tragedies, which all concern the heroes and heroines of antiquity, include }{\i Britannicus}{ and }{\i Phedre}{.
\par Answer::  Jean Baptiste }{\b Racine}{
\par 
\par 4. Found in 1908 by Josef Szombathy in an Aurignacian loess, it was originally colored with red ochre and has seven concentric horizontal bands, with two more half-bands. The top circle is in th
e form of a rosette, and each band has notches alternating between bands to provide the effect of braided hair. Kept at the Naturhistoriches Museum in Vienna, for ten points, name this figure notable for its wide hips and pendulous breasts, a famous sculp
ted figure of the Upper Paleolithic period.
\par Answer: A }{\b Woman}{ of }{\b Willendorf}{ or the }{\b Venus}{ of }{\b Willendorf}{\b\i 
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {5. This type of rock is distinguished by its high tendency to split into layers and its poorly developed foliation. Mostly composed of platy minerals, such
 as muscovite, talc, and graphite, it is formed under higher pressure than slate and is differentiated from gneiss, which has a poor tendency toward cleavage and well-developed foliation. For ten points, name this course-grained rock produced by regional 
metamorphism.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b schist
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {
6. According to his work, self-centered people are first oriented toward fear of punishment and may later seek out personal satisfaction and reward. That group-centered decision-making is at the second of his three levels is an
 example of gender bias, according to his student, Carol Gilligan. For ten points, name this psychologist who placed six stages among the Pre-Conventional, Conventional, and Post-Conventional levels of moral development.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: Lawrence }{\b Kohlberg
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {7. His early novel, }{\i The Silent Angel}{, was published nine years after his death.. It is one example of this author\rquote 
s trummer-literatur, or rubble literature, works on the agony of post-war Germany, which also include }{\i The Bread of These Early Years}{. For ten points, name this pacifist German author, known for works such as }{\i The Clown }{and }{\i 
Billiards at Half-Past Nine}{.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: Heinrich Theodor }{\b B\'f6ll
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {8.}{\b  }{He criticized the Antiochenes in his pamphlet }{\i Misopogon}{, which means "Beard Hater." He tried to rebuild the Temple in Jer
usalem to insult Christians. This Neoplatonist and sun worshipper had proclaimed freedom of religion in 361, but later followed a path of persecution. For ten points, name this nephew of Constantine the Great and successor of Constantinius II, who publicl
y converted to paganism, earning the name "Apostate".
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Julian}{ the Apostate or }{\b Julian}{us Apostata or Flavius Claudius }{\b Julian}{us
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {9. Her father tries to dissuade her from her intended course by telling her a story about a merchant who understood animals.
 Among those animals is a cock, which persuades the merchant to beat his wife as an example of the family discipline with which her father threatens her. When that doesn\rquote 
t work, her father, the Grand Vizier, blesses her attempt at marriage to King Shahryar. For ten points, name this woman, a framing device for a collection of stories translated by Sir Richard Burton.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Scheherazade}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {10. It was first discovered in an 1821 experiment using a copper strip and a bismuth strip, although it holds true for a
ny pair of metals. It was discovered that merely holding part of the experimental apparatus was sufficient to cause this to occur. Used to measure temperature accurately in thermocouples, for ten points, name this thermoelectric effect in which an electro
motive force is produced in a closed circuit where two junctions of dissimilar conductors are maintained at different temperatures.
\par Answer: }{\b Seebeck }{effect}{\b 
\par 
\par }{11. She wrote an elegy, \ldblquote North Haven,\rdblquote  for Robert Lowell, whose admiration of her included the dedication of his poem, \ldblquote Skunk Hour.\rdblquote 
 Living in such places as Nova Scotia, France, Mexico, and Key West, her travels are reflected in book titles such as }{\i North and South}{ and }{\i Geography III}{. For ten points, name this poet who wrote poems such as \ldblquote Crusoe in England,
\rdblquote  \ldblquote In the Waiting Room,\rdblquote  \ldblquote At the Fishhouses,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Questions of Travel.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: Elizabeth }{\b Bishop}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {12. Its name means \ldblquote mound of the dead\rdblquote  and it is approximately 5 miles in circumference. Evidence shows that it was subjected to several large floods, and 
its notable features include the Great Bath, the fortified citadel, and the regularity of its city blocks, Excavated by R.D. Banarjee beginning in 1922, with work continued by M.S. Vats and K.N. Dikshit, it located in Larkana District of Sindh, Pakistan. 
For ten points, name this largest city of the Indus valley civilization.
\par Answer: }{\b Mohenjo-Daro}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {13. This scientist determined the geometry of a 777 atom molecule by replacing zinc with lead, uranium, and mercury in insulin obtained from pigs. The winner of t
he Lenin Peace Prize in 1987 for work as President of the Pugwash Conference, this X-ray crystallographer determined that the first known organometallic compound was a porphyrin. For ten points, name this scientist honored with a Nobel Prize for her work 
on vitamin B-12.
\par Answer: Dorothy Crowfoot }{\b Hodgkin}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {14. Its founder is considered to be Mindaugus, who received a crown from Pope Innocent IV in 1253. Because its nobles desired aid in the Livonian War, it lost its independence in the Commonwealth of Two Peo
ples, also known as the Union of Lublin, in 1569. At its height, it held the cities of Smolensk and Kiev. For ten points, name this grand duchy, whose great leaders included Vytautus and Jagiello, before it lost its independence to Poland.
\par Answer: }{\b Lithuania}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {
15. According to one story, he was slain by Bous, also known as Vali. Bous was an instrument of vengeance created when a princess named Rinda was raped by Odin. This god was supposedly a suitor for the hand of Nanna who, according to one version, slew h
is rival suitor with his sword. For ten points, name this Norse deity better known as being tricked into throwing mistletoe at Balder.
\par Answer: }{\b Hoder}{ or }{\b H\'f6d}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {16. In 1923, he gave the first rigorous mathematical treatment of Albert Einstein\rquote s model for Brown
ian motion, so that the motion is sometimes known by his name. He later applied that treatment to show that quantum theory is consistent with other sciences. His work on gunfire control led to the use of statistical methods in control and communication en
gineering. For ten points, name this mathematician who established the science of cybernetics.
\par Answer: Norbert }{\b Wiener}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {17. As a critic, he would say, \ldblquote Hats off, gentlemen, a genius\rdblquote  upon discovering Chopin. As a piano player, he would ruin his career by usi
ng a homemade machine to strengthen his right hand. As a piano composer, his suite }{\i Carnaval, Cute Scenes on Four Notes}{, has 21 short pieces mostly based on three fragments. For ten points, name this composer whose first symphony would be titled }{
\i Spring}{ and whose third would be dubbed }{\i Rhenish}{.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: Robert }{\b Schumann}{
\par 
\par 18. Working from a family base in the Owari province, he gradually gained control the region and occupied in 1568 the capital of Kyoto; five years later he drove out the last of the Ashikaga sho
guns. FTP identify this warlord, assassinated in 1582 before realizing his ambition of uniting all of Japan.
\par Answer:  }{\b Oda Nobunaga}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {19. This novel features such characters as the medical student Zoya and the young doctor Vera Gangart as well as Lyudmila Do
ntsova, the chief of a department which deals with the patients. Among the patients who survive, Pavel Rusanov has his neck condition treated and returns to work for the Communist Party while Oleg Kostoglotov boards a train back to his Central Asian exile
. For ten points, name this novel based on the Tashkent hospital experience of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Cancer Ward}{ or }{\b Rakovy korpus}{
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 20. At 8:20AM, on August 3, 1982, his roommate admitted Officer Torick into the house. Three days after being arrested by Torick, he was contacted by the ACLU\rquote 
s Clint Sumrall, who felt that his arrest was a perfect test case. Laurence Tribe argued his case before the Supreme Court, but Lewis Powell cast the fifth vote against him. For ten points, name this man, arrested for violating Georgia\rquote 
s sodomy statute and prosecuted by state Attorney General Michael Bowers.
\par Answer: Michael }{\b Hardwick
\par 
\par }{21. Both the national motto and the currency translate as \ldblquote rain.\rdblquote  Luck, life, and prosperity are other meanings of }{\i pula}{. The national
 animal is the zebra, the inspiration for the black and white bands-- symbolzing racial harmony and pluralism-- located between blue bands representing water on its national flag. For ten points, name this landlocked African nation, whose capital, on the 
Limpopo River, is Gabarone.
\par Answer: Republic of }{\b Botswana
\par 
\par }{22. This first president of the London Zoo was appointed at the age of 23 to assistant secretary of the government of Penang Island. While there, he studied the culture of the Malayan people of the i
slands, catching the eye of Lord Minto, the governor-general of India, who gave much credit to this man for the subsequent capture of Java from the Dutch and French. For ten points, name this founder of the port of Singapore.
\par Answer: Sir Thomas Stamford }{\b Raffles
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {23. Oscar trivia buffs know this movie earned the only posthumous Oscar ever awarded, in this case a Best Actor given to Peter Finch.  The film, in fact, took just about every Oscar except for Best Picture, that
\par going to Rocky.  Vox Populi, Sibil th
e Soothsayer, and The Mao Tse-Tung Hour are just some of the fictitious programming featured in this movie that revolves around news anchorman Howard Beale, described as "the only man killed because he had low ratings."  Name this movie, which urges you

\par to go to the window and yell, "I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!"
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {Answer:  }{\b Network}{
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {24. Their chief tendency was to resist all Greek or other foreign influences that threatened to undermine the sacred religion of their fathers, and they t
ook their stand most emphatically upon divine law.  They wished the state and all public and political affairs to be measured and directed by the standard of divine law. FTP, identify this group which gained its name when John Hyrcanus was high priest of 
Judea, and whom Jesus condemned in the New Testament.
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {Answer:  }{\b Pharisees
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {25. On its surface, nitrogen geysers have erupted through the ice of the polar cap, carrying dust particles which have created dark streaks on the surface as they are blown by winds i
n the thin nitrogen and methane atmosphere. Discovered in 1846 by William Lassell, it is thought by some to be a captured satellite. For ten points, name this satellite notable for its unstable, highly inclined, retrograde orbit, the largest Moon of Neptu
ne.
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Triton
\par }{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
26. Among the approximately 35,000 existing collections of these include volumes published by Johann Gutenberg and the English printer William Caxton. The study of them is important as a source of information regarding the early developm
ent of the art of typography and also because many include the
\par earliest printed versions of many classical, medieval, and Renaissance works. FTP give this bibliographical collective term for books printed before the year 1501.
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {Answer:  }{\b Incunabula}{
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {27. This
 circuit consists of 3 known resistors and an unknown resistance connected in a diamond pattern. A DC voltage is connected across two opposite points of the diamond and a galvanometer is bridged across the other two. By varying the value of one of the kno
wn resistances, the bridge can be made to balance for any value of unknown resistance which can then be calculated. FTP name this kind of circuit, named for a Britist physicist.
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {Answer:  }{\b Wheatstone Bridge}{
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {28. He was the first to isolate aluminum, and publi
shed his Manual of Mechanical Physics in 1844.  Born in Rudkobing in 1777, he was educated at the University of Copenhagen where he became a professor in 1806. FTP name this Danish physicist and chemist who in 1819 discovered that a magnetic needle is def
lected at a right angle to a wire carrying an electric current, thus initiating the study of electromagnetism.
\par Answer:  Hans Christian }{\b Oersted}{
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 29. Its story is about a prostitute used by thieves to lure victims: first an old man, then an adolescent, and fi
nally the title character, who is robbed and survives being smothered, stabbed, and hung, but finally dies after the girl gives herself to him. The ensuing near-riot at its stage premiere in 1926 in Cologne would lead to mayor Conrad Adenauer to reprimand
 its composer. For ten points, name this pantomime by Bela Bartok.
\par Answer: The }{\b Miraculous Mandarin}{
\par 
\par 30. While her love life may include the musical Gordon Lowther and the artistic Teddy Lloyd, her occupation in life is her charge of five sixeen-year-olds in the 1930\rquote 
s: Monica Douglas, Rose Stanley, Eunice Gardiner, Mary Macgregor, and Sandy Stranger. On the grounds of the teaching fascism, this unorthodox educator is forced to retire from Marcia Blaines School for Girls in Edinburgh. For ten points, name thi
s schoolmistress, created by Muriel Spark.
\par Answer: Miss Jean }{\b Brodie}{ (From }{\i The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie}{)
\par 
\par 31. First and last name required. Troops of the Thomas Howard, duke of Norfolk joined the rebellion of this man, the Younger of this name, instead of 
putting it down. He entered London, February 3, 1554 with 3000 men but soon surrendered. The Elder was a diplomat to places such as Italy, from where he brought back the sonnet form. For ten points, name this poet whose sonnets include "The Long Love That
 in My Thought Doth Harbor" and "Whoso List to Hunt."
\par Answer: Sir }{\b Thomas Wyatt}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {32. He is described as "Late middle age. He wears from head to foot black tights which delineate his pot-bellied figure. His face is crafty, loosely benevolent, its best express
ion that of base human". This describes this character who puts on the coat and hat of Matthew, the Household Steward, as well as the black mask of the Headsman. For ten points, identify the speaker of the first lines of Robert Bolt's "A Man for All Seaso
ns".
\par Answer: the }{\b Common Man
\par 
\par }{33. A government laboratory in Guatemala zaps them with radiation and covers them with orange dye before they are shipped to MacDill Air Force Base, where they're grown, chilled, loaded onto a USDA plane, and dumped in the air a
s a "people-friendly" alternative to malathion. For ten points, what insect will waste time trying to mate with these sterilized partners in their 30 day lifespan, an agricultural scourge.
\par Answer: }{\b Medflies}{ or }{\b ceratitis capitata}{ or }{\b Mediterranean fruit fly}{ (prompt on \ldblquote fruit fly\rdblquote )
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {
34. During this time period, no weddings take place, no hair is cut, and nothing is done involving dancing or music, with the exception of the 33rd day. During this time of sadness, 12,000 disciples of Rabbi Akiva died during the pe
rsecution following the Bar Kokhba revolt. For ten points, name this 49-day period which the Torah says is the time to bring offerings to the temple, between Pesach and Shavout.
\par Answer: Sefirat Ha\rquote }{\b Omer}{ or the }{\b Sefirah}{ (prompt on \ldblquote the Counting\rdblquote )
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {35. This author of }{\i The Realm of Rights}{
 created the thought experiment of a violinist with a fatal kidney ailment. The Society of Music Lovers searches through medical records and finds one person with the right blood type, kidnaps that person, and hooks him or her up
 to the violinist so that his or her kidneys extract poisons from the violinist\rquote s blood. This setup is necessary for nine months. For ten points, this analogy in argument for abortion was posited by what moral philosopher?
\par Answer: Judith Jarvis }{\b Thomson
\par }{
\par 36. This Columbia-educated dramatist would author plays such as }{\i Dark Age}{, }{\i The Strange Mushroom}{, }{\i Fatherly Love}{ and many plays for children, although his greatest success was possibly }{\i The Little Nymph}{
. He collaborated with Vivian Darkbloom on }{\i The Lady Who Loved Lightning}{, which was the unnamed play seen in Wace by Humbert Humbert and Lolita. For ten points, name this character who is murdered by Humbert later in the novel }{\i Lolita}{.
\par Answer: Clare }{\b Quilty}{ (Prompt on Cue)
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {37. This sadistic and nymphomaniac librarian
 collected lampshades, gloves, and book covers made from tattooed human skin. Committing suicide by hanging with bedsheets in 1967, this person had been ordered to life imprisonment after a previous sentence of hard labor for life was commuted to 4 years.
 For ten points, what woman married the then-commander of Sachsenhause and later became known as the Witch of Buchenwald.
\par Answer: Ilsa }{\b Koch}{
\par \page }{\b 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions mostly by Case Western Reserve University (Anthony de Jesus), and also Columbia
\par Bonuses
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {1. Give the concepts of game theory, for ten points each.
\par 1. A set of axioms characterize this solution concept, published in 1953, associating a unique outcome, }{\i v}{ (\ldblquote nu\rdblquote ), with each coalitional game, }{\i v }{(\ldblquote nu\rdblquote ).
\par Answer: }{\b Shapley value}{
\par 2. This theorem states that the equilibrium outcomes of an infinitely repeated game coincide with the feasible and strongly individually rational outcomes of the one-shot game on which it is based.
\par Answer: }{\b Folk}{ theorem
\par 3. It is the set of strategies and corresponding payoffs with the property that no player can benefit by changing strategy while other players remain unchanged
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Nash equilibrium
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {2. 30-20-10 Name this thing.
\par 30. Ludolph Van Ceulen, a faculty member of the Engineering School in Leiden, spent most of his life studying it. It was put on his tombstone and was named after him in Germany for a long time.
\par 20. As a joke, mathematician N. T. Gridgeman used a needle of length k = 0.7857 in a phony experiment to determine this accurately.
\par 10. Gridgeman was making fun of Buffon\rquote s needle experiment, which states that the probability of the needle falling on a line in a uniform grid of parallel lines is 2k divided by this.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Pi}{ (Also known as the Ludolphine number.)
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {3. Identify these short stories by Nathaniel Hawthorne, for ten points each.
\par 1. The youth Robin ends up laughing out loud upon seeing the object of his search tarred and feathered.
\par Answer: }{\b My Kinsman, Major Molineaux}{
\par 2. The title character, Beatrice, is nourished on poison so he can aid her doctor father in experiments.
\par Answer:  }{\b Rappaccini\rquote s Daughter}{
\par 3. The narrator meets Mr. Smooth-it-away, a native of the City of Destruction.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: The }{\b Celestial Railroad}{
\par 
\par 4. Answer the following questions about the impeachment of Andrew Johnson for 10 points each.
\par 1. First, what Secretary of War did Johnson fire, starting the confrontation with Congress?
\par Answer:  Edwin M. }{\b Stanton}{
\par 2. What newly passed law did Johnson violate when he fired Stanton?
\par Answer:  The }{\b Tenure of Office }{Act
\par 3. Who cast the deciding vote to not impeach Johnson, winning him a spot in John Kennedy's impressively overrated }{\i Profiles in Courage}{ alongside the man who helped Mississippi secede from the Union?
\par Answer:  Edmund G. }{\b Ross}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {5. Identify these things having to do with a certain part of the body, FTP each.
\par 1. This is the medical Latin name for the nipple.
\par Answer: }{\b papilla }{mammae
\par 2. These sebaceous glands secrete a lipoid material which lubricate the nipple for nursing.
\par Answer: }{\b areolar}{ glands or }{\b glands of Montgomery}{
\par 3. This thin, yellowish secretion of the mammary gland occurs in the first few days after parturition.
\par Answer: }{\b colostrum
\par 
\par }{6. 30-20-10 Name the musical composition
\par 30. Viennese conductor Johann Herbeck acquired the manuscript for performance from Anselm H\'fcttenbrenner on the premise that it would be for a concert of contemporaries H\'fcttenbrenner, Lachner, and the composer of this piece.
\par 20. Written in B minor. this two-movement piece with a catalog number D759 was first performed 37 years after the death of its composer.
\par 10. This composition by an Austrian composer is known for its lack of a scherzo and a finale.
\par Answer: }{\b Unfinished}{ Symphony or Franz }{\b Schubert}{\rquote s }{\b Symphony}{ No. }{\b 8}{  (Accept }{\b Schubert}{\rquote s }{\b Symphony in B Minor}{ or }{\b D759}{ on the 30 point clue)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {7. One form of Greek verse uses a four-line stanza where the first three lines are eleven syllables long and the fourth is five syllables long. For ten points each:
\par 1. Name the inventor of this stanza, who has few surviving works.
\par Answer: }{\b Sappho}{
\par 2. Among Sappho\rquote s work are these songs celebrating marriage.
\par Answer: }{\b Epithalamia}{ or }{\b epithalamium}{s
\par 3. Among the users of Sapphic meter is this poet, buried on Esquiline Hill near his friend Maecenas, to whom he dedicated his }{\i Odes}{.
\par Answer: }{\b Horace}{ or Quintus }{\b Horatius}{ Flaccus
\par 
\par 8. Identify these dimensionless numbers, for ten points each.
\par 1. This dimensionless parameter, the ratio between the conductive and convective thermal resistances, is the conductive heat transfer coefficient, times the characteristic length, divided by the thermal conductivity.
\par Answer: }{\b Biot}{ number
\par 2. This dimensionless time parameter is the thermal diffusivity times the time, divided by the square of the characteristic length.
\par Answer: }{\b Fourier}{ number
\par 3. This dimensionless group is the ratio of the inertial and viscous forces.
\par Answer: }{\b Reynolds}{ number
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {9. With the defeat of Lugalzaggisi of Uruk, a ruler became king of Mesopotamia. For fifteen points each:
\par 15. Name this king who began the Semitic dynasty of Agade, an early empire builder.
\par Answer: }{\b Sargon}{ I of Akkad or }{\b Sharru-kin}{
\par 15. Among Sargon\rquote s conquests was this city-state, containing the }{\i Stele of Vultures}{, a monument commemorating the victory of King Eannatum over Umma. Archaeological discoveries here advanced knowledge of Sumeria.
\par Answer: }{\b Lagash}{ or }{\b Telloh}{ or }{\b Girsu
\par 
\par }{10. Identify these lakes, for ten points each.
\par 1. This lake separates the rest of Minnesota from Northwest Angle, the northernmost point in the lower 48 states.
\par Answer: }{\b Lake of the Woods}{
\par 2. This Khazak lake is fed by the Ile River, but the diversion of water from the river has caused this lake to be come saltier and its surface to drop seven feet.
\par Answer: Lake }{\b Balkhash}{
\par 3. Located between Bolivia and Peru, this is the largest freshwater lake in South America.
\par Answer: Lake }{\b Titicaca
\par 
\par }{11. While written by thousands of people, the main author, if there is such a thing, is Larry Wall. For ten points each:
\par 1. Name this interpreted language which, according to Wall, is optimized for scanning arbitrary text files.
\par Answer: }{\b Perl}{
\par 2. Things written in Perl are usually neither strictly compiled-- that is, a program-- nor strictly interpreted. What term is given to something strictly interpreted, meaning that it is translated by a program each time it is used?
\par Answer: }{\b script}{
\par 3. O\rquote Reilly & Associates has an interface called JPL as part of its Perl Resource Kit. What does JPL stand for?
\par Answer: }{\b Java-Perl Lingo}{ (It is a pun on Jet Propulsion Laboratories, where Perl got its start.)
\par }{\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {12. Identify the following dead people from Roman History whose named all start with \ldblquote V\rdblquote  for 10 points apiece.
\par 1. Elected king of the Arveni in 52 BC, he led the Gallic revolt against Rome before being defeated by Julias Caesar and executed in 46 BC.
\par Answer: }{\b Vercingtorix }{  
\par 2. Three emperors shared this name: The first preceded Gratian, the second was co-Augustus with Gratian and Theodoius the Great, and the third was emperor of the west from 425-455, during which time his general Aetius defeated the Huns at Chalons.
\par Answer: Flavius }{\b Valentinian}{us
\par 3. He was proclaimed emperor by his troops in 253 and ruled for seven years, before losing an army to the Persians at Edessa and subsequently dying in captivity.
\par Answer:  Publius Licinius }{\b Valerian}{us
\par 
\par 13. Name the authors of these gothic novels for ten points each.
\par 1. The first Gothic novel, }{\i The Castle of Otranto}{.
\par Answer:  Horace }{\b Walpole}{
\par 2. Some of the thickest Gothic novels, including }{\i The Mysteries of Udolpho}{ and }{\i The Italian}{.
\par Answer:  Ann }{\b Radcliffe}{
\par 3. Alternately inspired by and inspiring for Anne Radcliffe, his }{\i The Monk}{ was condemned for immorality and is often considered the most gothic gothic novel.
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {Answer:  Matthew G. }{\b Lewis}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {14. Identify these African cultures, for ten points each.
\par 1. This civilization arose in present-day Nigeria around 500 BC. Artifacts of it were first discovered in 1928 and it created the earliest known sub-Saharan sculpture.
\par Answer: }{\b Nok}{ figurine culture
\par 2. This people, one of the two largest ethnic groups in Nigeria, had a holy city at Ife. They are notable for their excellent terra cotta and lost-wax bronze casting sculptures.
\par Answer: }{\b Yoruba}{
\par 3. This kingdom flourished from the 13th to the 19th century. Ewuare the Great and Ozolua are among the obas, or rulers, of this kingdom which gave its name to a country bordering Nigeria.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Benin}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {15. Identify these rulers of the House of Savoy, for ten points each.
\par 1. In 1713, he went from duke to king of Sicily, but in 1720 traded Sicily for Sardinia.
\par Answer: }{\b Victor Amadeus II}{
\par 2. In 1866, this king acquired Venetia, while in 1870, he took Rome.
\par Answer: }{\b Victor Emmanuel II}{
\par 3. This king became the Count of Sarre in Portugal. He ruled from May 9, 1946, when his father abdicated, until June 14, when a referendum in favor of a republic banished him.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Umberto II }{or }{\b Humbert II
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {16. Identify these novels by Edward Bulwer Lytton, for ten points each.
\par 1. Arbaces, the Priest of Isis, is a villain from this book set in 1st century AD Roman Empire.
\par Answer: The }{\b Last Days of Pompeii}{
\par 2. The title character is the Earl of Warwick, defeated at the battle of Barnet during the War of the Roses.
\par Answer: The }{\b Last of the Barons}{
\par 3. The subtitle, \ldblquote The Last of the Tribunes\rdblquote , refers to Cola, an idealist who tries to set up a Republic in 14th century Rome.
\par Answer: }{\b Rienzi}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 17. 30-20-10 Identify the following event.
\par 30. The autumn ceremonies began with the fetching of sacred objects by youth known as ephebi.
\par 20. Initiation of candidates took place in the Telesterion and it involved the observance of the divinities Demeter and Persephone.
\par 10. They were held yearly in a village nearby Athens and the exact ceremonies that occurred is unknown.
\par  Answer:  }{\b Eleusinian Mysteries}{
\par 
\par 18. Name the following 20th century authors from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10.  }{\i A Spy in the House of Love}{
\par      5. }{\i House of Venus}{, and a famous }{\i Diary}{ from 1931-1966
\par Answer:  Anais }{\b Nin}{
\par 2. 10. }{\i Eyeless in Gaza}{
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {      5. }{\i Point Counter Point}{, }{\i Antic Hay}{
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer:  Aldous}{\b  Huxley}{
\par 3. 10.  }{\i Lafcadio\rquote s Adventures}{
\par       5.}{\i The Immoralist}{, }{\i The Counterfeiters}{
\par Answer:  Andre }{\b Gide}{
\par }{\b 
\par }{19. FTP each name these people who were instrumental in the civil rights movement.
\par 1.  As a secretary-treasurer to the Southern Christian Leadership Conference at its founding, he was Martin Luther King Jr.'s closest associate and later President of the SCLC from 1968 to 1977.
\par Answer:  Ralph }{\b Abernathy}{
\par 2.  A SCLC clergyman who became important in the voter registration drives, he later became ambassador to the UN under Jimmy Carter but was forced to resign after it became known that he had met a representative of the PLO.
\par Answer:  Andrew Jackson }{\b Young}{
\par 3.  An insurance salesman, he moved to Jackson to become the NAACP's first field secretary in Mississippi in 1954 but was assassinated in 1963 by Byron de la Beckwith.
\par Answer:  Medgar }{\b Evers}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {20. Identify these aromatic compounds, for ten points each.
\par 1. This benzene ring has two methyl groups.
\par Answer: }{\b xylene}{\line 2. It is the simplest condense-ring aromatic hydrocarbon.
\par Answer: }{\b naphthalene}{
\par 3. It is the only non-planar condensed-ring hydrocarbon.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b hexahelicene}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {21. Identify these works of Federico Garc\'eda Lorca, for ten points each.
\par 1. In this poetic tragedy, the title character strangles her husband, who is unable to provide her with children.
\par Answer: }{\b Yerma}{
\par 2. A play completing the trilogy that includes }{\i Yerma}{, its characters include five sisters: Angustias, Magdalena, Amelia, Martirio, and Adela.
\par Answer: La }{\b Casa de Bernarda Alba}{ or The }{\b House of Bernarda Alba
\par }{3. After traveling to the US in the late 1920\rquote s, Lorca wrote this collection titled after the city in which he stayed.
\par Answer: }{\b Poet in New York}{ or }{\b Poeta en Nueva York
\par 
\par }{22. Identify these novels of Jules Verne from plot descriptions, for ten points each.
\par 1. The members of the Baltimore Gun Club use a giant cannon as part of a trip.
\par Answer: }{\b From the Earth to the Moon}{ or }{\b De la terre \'e0 la lune}{
\par 2. Five men use a hot air balloon to escape from a Richmond prison.
\par Answer: The }{\b Mysterious Island}{ or }{\b L\rquote ile myst\'e9rieuse}{
\par 3. Captain Guy tries to find out what happened to his brother\rquote s ship in this sequel to Edgar Allan Poe\rquote s the Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym.
\par Answer: The }{\b Sphinx of the Ice Fields}{ or Le }{\b Sphinx des Glaces}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 23. Identify the following related regions for 15 points apiece.
\par 15: It was part of the territory held by the Capetians, and from the 15th-18th century was a separate province centered around the city of Paris.
\par Answer:  }{\b Ile-de-France}{
\par 15: Also known as the Ile-de-France, this island was settled by the Dutch in 1598, taken over by France in 1715, and ceded to Britain in 1814, gaining its independence in 1968.
\par Answer:  }{\b Mauritius
\par }{
\par 24. Unnh. Expand these computer acronyms for ten points each.
\par 1.  FTP.
\par Answer:  }{\b File Transfer Protocol}{
\par 2. TCP/IP
\par Answer:  }{\b Transport Control Protocol/Internet Protocol}{
\par 3. Last, CMOS.
\par  Answer:  }{\b Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {25. Answer these questions about  works by Robert Browning, for ten points each.
\par 1. The title character of this poem is a silk winder wandering through the town of Asolo.
\par Answer: \ldblquote }{\b Pippa Passes}{\rdblquote 
\par 2. Browning wrote a poem based on this Renaissance painter of the }{\i Madonna of the Harpies}{.
\par Answer: Andrea del }{\b Sarto}{ or Andrea }{\b D\rquote Agnolo}{
\par 3. In this dramatic monologue, a character from Shakespeare\rquote s }{\i The Tempest}{ speculates about the character of his god.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: \ldblquote }{\b Caliban Upon Setebos}{, or, Natural Theology in the Island\rdblquote 
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {26. For ten points each, answer these questions about the use of candles in the Roman Catholic Church.
\par 1. With one exception, candles used at Mass should be made of this substance.
\par Answer: }{\b beeswax}{ (prompt on \ldblquote wax\rdblquote )
\par 2. The exception, for missionaries of Oceania, allowed use of candles made from this animal
\par Answer: }{\b sperm whale}{ (prompt on \ldblquote whale\rdblquote )
\par 3. Candles are to be of this color at funerals, at the office of Tenebrae in Holy Week, and at the Mass of the Presanctified, on Good Friday.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b yellow}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {27. Identify these things having to do with Platyhelminthes, for ten points each.
\par 1. The only class of Platyhelminthes to not include any parasitic lifeforms, this class includes Planarians.
\par Answer: }{\b Turbellaria}{ns
\par 2. This genus is collectively known as blood flukes.
\par Answer: }{\b Schistosoma}{
\par 3. Tapeworms and monogeneans have these spinelike structures on their surfaces, used to attach to their host.
\par Answer: }{\b microtrich}{es or }{\b microvilli
\par 
\par }{28. Some ancient Egyptians, such as those in Heliopolis, grouped their deities in nines. For ten points each:
\par 1. What is the general term for a group of nine deities?
\par Answer: }{\b ennead}{
\par 2. This city was also known as Khumunu, the \ldblquote city of eight\rdblquote  and had an Ogdoad, a group of eight gods, reckoned in pairs of two. 
\par Answer: }{\b Hermopolis}{
\par 3. The chief god of Hermopolis was this inventor of writing, later identified with Hermes by the Greeks.
\par Answer: }{\b Thoth}{ or }{\b Djhuty}{
\par }{\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {29. For ten points each, identify these things having to do with Jack the Dripper.
\par 1. Jackson Pollock had his first one-man show at this gallery operated by Peggy Guggenheim.
\par Answer: }{\b Art of This Century}{ Gallery
\par 2. At the Art Students League, Pollock was a student of this painter who set the Biblical scene }{\i Susanna and the Elders}{ in rural America.
\par Answer: Thomas Hart }{\b Benton}{
\par 3. An oil on canvas with nails, tacks, buttons, coins, cigarettes, matches, keys and other items embedded, this 1947 sea-green work is an early example of the drip technique.
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b Full Fathom Five}{\b\i 
\par 
\par }{30. Second in coolness of name to the War of Jenkins\rquote  Ear, for ten points, identify these things having to do with the War of the Three Henrys.
\par 1. Henry the Scarred, duc de Guise led this association, formed to defend Roman Catholicism. Henry III tried to stop its power by having the duc assassinated.
\par Answer: }{\b Holy League}{ or La }{\b Sainte Ligue}{
\par 2. After the death of the duc de Guise, this man, his brother, became president of the general council of the Holy League, supporting the Cardinal de Bourbon for the throne.
\par Answer: Charles de Lorraine, duc de }{\b Mayenne}{
\par 3. Henry Bourbon became Henry IV as successor to his cousin Henry III. Henry Bourbon united France with this, his Pyrenee kingdom, in 1589.
\par Answer: }{\b Navarre}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {31. 30-20-10 Name the place
\par 30. The geometer Hippocrates, the philosopher Ariston, and the historian Theopompus were all "of" it
\par 20.  5 miles off the coast of Turkey, it was the home of a school of bards known as the Homerids and Homer was reputed to have lived there.
\par 10. In 1822, during the War of Greek Independence, some Christians were sold in to slavery while others were killed by the Turks here.
\par Answer: }{\b Chios}{
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {32. Identify these Reagan Cabinet members, for ten points each.
\par 1. This Secretary of Labor resigned after his indictment, with 4 others, of attempting to defraud the New York City Transit Authority of $7.4 million.
\par Answer: Raymond }{\b Donovan}{
\par 2. This Secretary of Labor resigned to manage Bob Dole\rquote s presidential campaign.
\par Answer: William E. }{\b Brock}{ III
\par 3. This Secretary of Commerce, a champion rodeo rider, died after his horse fell on him.
\par Answer: Malcolm }{\b Baldridge}{
\par 
\par 33. It is a source for understanding court life in the Heian Period. 
\par 1. For ten points each, name this diary which includes lists such as "Things Which Distract in Moments of Boredom" and its author, a lady in the court of the empress Sadako from 991 to 1000.
\par Answer: }{\b Pillow Book}{ or }{\b Makura no soshi}{ by }{\b Sei Shonagon}{
\par 2. For another ten, the }{\i Pillow Book}{ of Sei Shonagon was written in this form of Japanese writing, used by court women.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer: }{\b hira-gana}{ or }{\b onna-de}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {34. Identify these things having to do with Native Americans in recent years, for ten points each.
\par 1. This 1990 law uses the concept of \ldblquote cultural patrimony\rdblquote  as justification for the return of sacred or ceremonial objects from any institution receiving federal funding.
\par Answer: }{\b NAGPRA}{ or }{\b Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act}{
\par 2. The 1989 National Museum of the American Indian Act addresses the return of this specific type of artifact from the Smithsonian Institute.
\par Answer: }{\b human remains}{ (accept  equivalents)
\par 3. In 1980, the Supreme court declared the government taking of the Black Hills to be extralegal. The litigants were the United States and this Native American nation.
\par Answer: }{\b Sioux}{ Nation of Indians
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {35. The \ldblquote dirty war\rdblquote  was an anti-leftist campaign which saw up to 20,000 people disappear, never to be heard from again. For ten points each:
\par 1. The \ldblquote dirty war\rdblquote  was conducted in what country?
\par Answer: }{\b Argentina}{
\par 2. During what Argentinean\rquote s presidency was the \ldblquote dirty war\rdblquote  conducted?
\par Answer: Jorge Rafa\'e9l }{\b Videla}{
\par 3. During Videla\rquote s rule, Argentina almost went to war with Chile over three islands, Picton, Nueva, and Lennox. The islands are located in what straight?
\par Answer: }{\b Beagle}{ Channel
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par 36. Identify these Neoclassical painters, for ten points each.
\par 1. This early Bohemian Neoclassicist is known for his fresco \ldblquote Parnassus,\rdblquote  at the Villa Albani in Rome.
\par Answer: Anton Raphael }{\b Mengs}{
\par 2. This painter\rquote s 1781 work, "The Lictors Bringing to Brutus the Bodies of His Sons" influenced French fashion.
\par Answer: Jacques-Louis }{\b David}{
\par 3. This Tuscan painter\rquote s best subject was the \ldblquote Grand Tour,\rdblquote  a type of historical portrait with the subject in a classical background. Young Englishmen visiting Italy favored this pose.
\par Answer: Pompeo }{\b Batoni}{
\par 
\par }\pard \sl240\slmult0\widctlpar\adjustright {37. Identify these paradoxes, for ten points each.
\par 1. Named after a 6th century BC Cretan, an example of it is the statement: \ldblquote This sentence is not true.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b Epimendes\rquote }{ Paradox or the }{\b liar}{ paradox
\par 2. This one of Zeno\rquote s four paradoxes considers a person walking and concludes that motion is impossible.
\par Answer: }{\b dichotomy}{ paradox or }{\b distance}{ paradox
\par 3. This paradox is named after a fictional character who requires an infinite amount of time to write his autobiography, when so far he has spent two years in writing about two days of his life.
\par Answer: }{\b Tristam Shandy}{ paradox
\par 
\par 38. Identify these chemistry concepts, for ten points each.
\par 1. It is the most probable distance from the nucleus to the electron in the ground state of a hydrogen atom with a fixed nucleus.
\par Answer: }{\b Bohr radius}{
\par 2. It is the potential energy of two electrons separated by a Bohr radius.
\par Answer: }{\b Hartree energy}{
\par 3. Douglas Hartree also determined a method of finding the energy of an atomic orbital for a non-hydrogen atom, called the self-consistent field method. Credit for this method is sometimes shared with this Russian who generalized the method.
\par Answer: Vladimir Alexandrovich }{\b Fock}{
\par }}