{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid67698703
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1594976259}}{\*\listoverridetable
{\listoverride\listid1594976259\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Tossups by Georgia Tech (Hing Chan, Kevin Crawford, Dan Nguyen, Michael Tiffany)}{\author .}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords4097}{\nofchars23356}{\*\company Georgia Institute of Technology}{\nofcharsws28682}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0
\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid {1999 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Questions by Georgia Tech (Hing Chan, Kevin Crawford, Dan Nguyen, Michael Tiffany)
\par Tossups}{
\par 
\par 1. In 1915, he sent the peace ship }{\i Oskar II}{ to Europe in an unsuccessful attempt to achieve a negotiated end of WWI.  In 1918, he ran unsuccessfu
lly for the Senate.  These events were after he was in the forefront of change, instituting a minimum daily wage and using conveyor assembly line production methods.  FTP who built upon his success with his racing car \ldblquote 999\rdblquote 
 and founded a motor company.
\par Answer:  Henry }{\b Ford
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
2. The frequencies of the waves used range from 1 to 10 MHz, and the signal is produced by the application of a steady electrical sine wave applied to a transducer.  The distance from the reflecting surface is obtained from the time delay
 of the echo and the Doppler shift of frequency is used to measure speed of moving objects such as red blood cells, and a coupling gel is usually used to eliminate the air gap between the transducer and the patient\rquote 
s skin.  FTP, identify this method of examining the shape and movement of organs in the body, most associated with pregnancies.
\par Answer: }{\b Ultrasound
\par 
\par }{3. When the author wrote the last pages of this novel, with its last scene in a graveyard, he said, "I had to turn my head so that my tears would not
 fall on the manuscript."  And the publisher Katkov of the Russian Herald, felt that it was a "shameless apotheosis" of the radicals.   Characters in this novel set in 1860s Russia include the young Arkady Kirsanov and Yevgeny Bazarov.  FTP, name this nov
el by Ivan Turgenev.
\par Answer:  }{\b Fathers and Sons
\par 
\par }{4. A German organizer of the Nazi 'Brownshirts' or SA, he was a potential rival to Hitler.  On the pretext of an intended SA Putsch or uprising, some one hundred of the SA's including him were killed.  FTP nam
e this man who was executed without trial on Hitler's orders during the Night of the Long Knives.
\par Answer:  Ernst }{\b Rohm
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {5. Drill a hole down to the beds.  3 concentric pipes are lowered down the borehole.  Superheated steam passed down the outermost pipe me
lts the desired substance.  Compressed air passed down the central pipe forms a froth, and pressure pushes it up the third pipe to the surface, where it runs into molds and hardens.  FTP identify this process for extracting sulfur named after a German-bor
n US chemist.
\par Answer:  }{\b Frasch}{ process (prompt on \ldblquote sulfur\rdblquote  before it is mentioned)}{\b 
\par }{
\par 6. Shortly after Gregory XI died, the 16 cardinals present elected Urban VI, who was soon acting very offensively to all in the church. The cardinals met again at Agnani and 
on Aug. 2 declared Urban's election null.  At Fondi on Sept. 20 they elected Robert of Geneva pope as Clement VII.  Clement VII fled to Avignon, when he reigned surrounded by the former Roman court.  This, FTP, started what division in the Roman Catholic 
Church from 1378 to 1417?
\par  Answer:  The }{\b Great Schism
\par 
\par }{7. This god was represented as a vigorous, red-haired youth, and was armed with iron gloves, a belt of strength, and a magical hammer that returned to him.  Associated with marriage, the hearth, and agri
culture, according to tradition, he failed to smash the skull of Jormungand and the 2 are destined to kill each other in the Ragnarok.  FTP name this Norse god of thunder, might, and war.
\par Answer:  }{\b Thor}{
\par 
\par 8. Charles Olson's essay }{\i Projective Verse}{, which emph
asized the creative process, in which the poet's energy is transferred through the poem to the reader, became their manifesto.  Inherent in their poetry was the reliance upon decidedly American conversational language.  Much of this group's early work was
 published in the magazine }{\i Origin}{ from 1951-1956.  FTP name this group which also included the poets Robert Creeley and Robert Duncan, who taught at a college in North Carolina.
\par Answer:  }{\b Black Mountain }{Poets}{\b 
\par 
\par }{9. This animal is characterized by peglike teeth
 without roots or enamel.  Members have almost 100 teeth, more than any other mammal. Although omnivorous, insects form the bulk of their diet.  Species range from the giant variety which reaches 4 feet and 100 lbs to the fairy pichiagos which only reach 
6 inches. The nine-banded species is the only species found in the US.  FTP, identify this armored mammal of order Edentata.
\par Answer: }{\b Armadillo
\par }{
\par 10. After practicing law and teaching at the University of Graz and at Bonn, he emigrated to America in 1932 and 
became a professor at Harvard. His major contributions to economics were the theory of the entrepreneur as the dynamic factor in the business cycle and the theory of the economic development of Capitalism.  He also argued that government should not try to
 break up monopolies, and that, in fact, a monopoly was likely to call into existence the very forces of competition that would replace it.  FTP name this Austrian-American who created that dynamic, which is labeled the \ldblquote 
process of creative destruction\rdblquote .
\par Answer:  Joseph }{\b Schumpeter
\par 
\par }{11. In 88 AD, he was awarded a praetorship, one of many public positions he held.  His father-in-law, Julius Agricola, was the subject of one of his early works, and he also wrote }{\i Dialogus de Oratoribus}{, marking his transition fro
m interest in oratory to history.  His }{\i Histories}{ begin in 69, and continue through Domitian's death in 96.  FTP, who is this author of the }{\i Annales}{ and }{\i Germania}{?
\par Answer:  }{\b Tacitus}{
\par 
\par 12. Attached as an amendment to a bill authorizing appropriation for territor
ial purchase, it was never enacted, although it became the focus of national controversy for 4 years.  Named after a Pennsylvania Democrat, it motioned to exclude slavery from any territory acquired from Mexico.  FTP name, this 1846 motion.
\par Answer:  }{\b Wilmot}{ Proviso
\par 
\par 13. This painting shares it name with the first novel in a trilogy by Joyce Carol Oates. The left wing represents Earth, the middle, "Ecclesia's Paradise", and the right, hell. The cover of this triptych, which hangs in the Prado, depicts the thi
rd day of creation.  Its painter\rquote s surname was van Aeken, but he went by a name which referred to Hertogenbosch, where he was born.  FTP, give the name of this painting by Hieronymus Bosch, 
\par Answer: }{\b Garden of Earthly Delights}{
\par 
\par 14. This work, which received the National Book Award, is composed of a title novella and five short stories, which include }{\i You Can't Tell a Man by the Song He Sings}{ and }{\i The Conversion of the Jews}{
.  The novella concerns itself with a materialistic, Jewish, suburban family, and characters include Brenda Patimkin and the narrator Neil Klugman.  FTP, what is this 1959 novella by Philip Roth?
\par Answer:  }{\b Goodbye, Columbus
\par 
\par }{15. The state of Georgia offered a $5000 reward for his arrest and conviction.  In 1835, he was dragged through the stree
ts of Boston and nearly killed by a mob.  FTP who promised, "I am in earnest-I will not retreat a single inch, AND I WILL BE HEARD." in his Abolitionist newspaper, the }{\i Liberator}{?
\par Answer:  William Lloyd }{\b Garrison
\par 
\par }{16. As an actor, this man first appeared in the movie }{\i Il Processo Clemenceau}{, but his directing debut was the 1939 }{\i Red Roses}{. Later works include }{\i Two Women}{, }{\i Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow}{, and }{\i 
The Garden of the Finzi-Continis}{. FTP, who is this neorealist Italian director of }{\i Umberto D }{and }{\i The Bicycle Thief}{?
\par Answer: Vittorio }{\b De Sica}{
\par 
\par 17. Born in 1840 near Dorchester, England, this son of a stonemason grew up with loves for both music and literature.  He was forced to apprentice as an architect due to lack of money for schooling.  While in this position
, he continually wrote, turning out }{\i Desperate Remedies}{ and }{\i A Pair of Blue Eyes}{.  His success made marriage feasible, and he married Emma Lavinia Gifford in 1874.  FTP, name the man who wrote the novels }{\i The Return of the Native}{ and }{
\i The Mayor of Casterbridge}{.
\par Answer:  Thomas }{\b Hardy}{
\par 
\par 18. Two stars of this constellation, Mimosa and Gacrux, are among the brightest in the sky.  This constellation also contains the Coalsack, a famous dark nebula.  The long arm terminates in the brightest member, Acrux, which points
 almost directly at the south celestial pole. Its position in the far southern sky makes it visible most of the year to southern observers but not at all to observers north of about 25\'b0
N latitude.  FTP, identify this constellation named for its intersecting components.
\par Answer:}{\b   Southern Cross }{or }{\b Crux
\par 
\par }{19. An African fantasy, }{\i Les Blancs\'b8 }{and this author\rquote s autobiography, }{\i To Be Young, Gifted, and Black}{, were completed by her husband Robert Nemiroff. An earlier play, }{\i The Sign in Sidney Brustein\rquote s Window}{, was a 
drama of political questioning and affirmation set in Greenwich Village. FTP, who is this playwright best known for her 1959 play about the Younger family, }{\i A Raisin in the Sun}{?
\par Answer: Lorraine }{\b Hansberry}{
\par }{\b 
\par }{20. As a young man, he participated in friendly keyboard competition with Handel, and the two remained lifelong friends.  While in Lisbon, he taught the Infanta Maria Barbara, and was later choirmaster at St. Peter\rquote 
s in Rome. The American harpsichordist Ralph Kirkpatrick catalogued many of his works, giving them \ldblquote K.\rdblquote  numbers. FTP, identify this son of the operatic composer Alessandro, who wrote over 600 sonatas for the harpsichord.
\par Answer:  }{\b Domenico}{ }{\b Scarlatti
\par 
\par }{21. This country includes the Adygei Region as well as the Karachaevo-Cherkess Republic, Kabardino
-Balkar Republic, North Ossetian Republic, Checheno-Ingush Republic, Daghestan Republic, Mordovian Republic, Chuvash Republic, Mari Republic, Tatar Republic, and the Udmurt Republic.  FTP name this country which in land area is by far the largest in the w
orld.
\par Answer:  }{\b Russia}{
\par 
\par 22. In 1959, this book was banned from the US mails by Postmaster General Arthur E. Summerfield as pornographic, smutty, obscene, and filthy.  In it, the wife of an English aristocrat runs away with her gamekeeper.  Her husband has be
en rendered impotent by a war wound and is also an emotional cripple.  FTP name this D. H. Lawrence work.
\par Answer:  }{\b Lady Chatterley\rquote s Lover
\par }{
\par 23. The D region lies approximately at a height between 50 and 90 km above the surface. It has the lowest concentrat
ion of charged particles and reflects low frequency waves. The middle layers are called the Kennelly-Heaviside layers, named for the independent discoverers of this layer of the atmosphere.  The Appleton, or highest layer, has the highest concentration of
 charged particles due to the low density of gases.  FTP, identify this layer of the atmosphere that reflects radio waves at standard broadcast and
\par shortwave frequencies.
\par  Answer:  }{\b Ionosphere
\par }{
\par 24. In 1551, this man became a member of the Antwerp Guild.  He visited Italy soon after, but remained a proponent of the Flemish tradition.  He painted religious histories such as }{\i Numbering at Bethlehem}{, parables such as }{\i 
The Blind Leading the Blind}{, and landscapes such as }{\i Harvesters}{.  FTP, name this member of an illustrious family of painters, best known for his }{\i Peasant Wedding}{.
\par Answer:  Pieter }{\b Bruegel}{ the }{\b Elder
\par }{
\par 25. In 1987, this man was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, but it did not end his career, only paused it.  As a child, he learned from such works as Verdi's }{\i Rigoletto}{
 and from recordings of Enrico Caruso an Giuseppe Di Stefano.  He made his operatic debut at age 11 singing in a Manuel de Falla work.  FTP, name this tenor, probably most famous for his concerts and recordings with Placido Domingo and Luciano Pavarotti.

\par Answer:  Jose }{\b Carreras}{
\par 
\par 26. Its generic name is mifepristone. It blocks the uterine absorption of progesterone, thereby causing the uterine line and any fertilized egg to shed.  Common side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and
 abdominal pain, although vaginal bleeding may result and a follow-up vacuum aspiration is necessary.  FTP, identify this pill used since 1988 to terminate pregnancies.
\par Answer:  }{\b RU-486}{
\par 
\par 27. In 445BC, Jerusalem came under the rule of this man.  He institued
 religious reforms that became characteristic features of postexilic Judaism as recounted in Ezra and the book of the Bible named after him.  FTP who by 439 BC, obtained permission from the Persian government to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem?
\par Answer:  }{\b Nehemiah}{
\par 
\par 28. The librettist was walking up and down the library in his new house when an enormous Japanese executioner's sword he had hung on the wall suddenly fell to the floor.  The event gave him the idea for this opera.  Nanki-Poo is in love with Yum-Yum
, the most desirable of the 'Three Little Maids'.  He was supposed to marry Katisha, but submits to banishment instead.  Yum-Yum is supposed to marry Ko-Ko.  But in the end, Katisha ends up with Ko-Ko and Nanki-Poo with Yum-Yum.  FTP name this opera by Gi
lbert and Sullivan.
\par Answer:  The }{\b Mikado}{
\par \page }{\b 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech (Hing Chan, Kevin Crawford, Dan Nguyen, Michael Tiffany)
\par Bonuses}{
\par 
\par 1. FTP each answer these questions about 3 literary sisters and their brother:
\par 1.  She was the youngest of six children although only 4 of those children survived after 1820.  She wrote }{\i The Tenant of Wildfell Hall}{.
\par Answer:  }{\b Anne Bronte}{
\par 2.  This novel by Charlotte Bronte was based on her own experience in Brussels and tells of a poor young woman's emotional trial-by-fire while teaching in a girl's school in Belgium.
\par Answer:  }{\b Villette}{
\par 3.  Give the first name of the brother of Anne, Charlotte, and Emily, who like them was left to the care of their father and aunt after the death of their mom.
\par Answer:  }{\b Branwell
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {2. FTP each identify the country given a description of their flag:
\par 1.  Its colors, red which represents the soldiers who died in the war, and green which represents hope, were adopted in 1910 when it became a republic.  The armillary shield - an early navi
gational instrument - reflected the country's leading role in world exploration.
\par Answer:  }{\b Portugal}{
\par 2.  The colors of its flag, adopted on independence in 1964 art those of the rulers of the islands from 1530-1798.  The George Cross was added in 1943 to commemorate the heroism of its people during World War II.
\par Answer:  }{\b Malta}{
\par 3.  Its flag's design with the colors of blue and white represents the battle cry 'Freedom or Death' used during its struggle in a war from 1821-1829.
\par Answer:  }{\b Greece
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {3. It\rquote s Bible Genealogy time!  FTSNOP, identify:
\par 5. The murderer of Naboth
\par Answer:  }{\b Ahab
\par }{10. The father of Ahab
\par Answer:  }{\b Omri
\par }{10. Ahab\rquote s daughter who brought worship of Baal to the southern kingdom of Judah.
\par Answer:  }{\b Athaliah
\par }{5. Ahab\rquote s wife
\par Answer:  }{\b Jezebel}{
\par 
\par 4. Identify these orders of Mammalia FTPE.
\par 1.  This is the only order of the subclass Protheria and is the most primitive of the Mammalian orders.
\par Answer: }{\b Monotremata }{or }{\b Monotreme}{s
\par 2.   This order of mammals includes the deer, antelope, camel, pig, and cow. These mammals have third and fourth digits that are symmetrical and functional.
\par Answer: }{\b Artiodactyla }{or }{\b Artiodactyl}{s
\par 3.   This order of aquatic mammals is the only order that feeds entirely upon vegetation. They are hairless except for the bristles around the fleshy lips.  Their claim to fame is their resemblance to mermaids.
\par Answer: }{\b Sirenia}{
\par 
\par 5. FTP each answer these questions about 3 literary sisters and their brother:
\par 1.  Olga, Masha, and Irina yearn for the excitement of Moscow.  Their dreary provincial life is enlivened only by the arrival of the Imperial Army in a play by this writer.
\par Answer:  Anton }{\b Chekhov}{
\par 2.  The Three Sisters' brother marries a woman they consider ill-bred, and he mortgages the house.  His wife Natalya Ivanovna, becomes a domestic despot.  Name this brother FTP.
\par Answer: }{\b Andrey}{
\par 3.  Give the last name of the Three Sisters.
\par Answer: }{\b Prozorov }{or }{\b Prosorova
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {6. With the recent discussion of the lack of language questions on the newsgroup, here\rquote s a bonus for you on languages, programming languages that is, FTPE.
\par 1.  The first implemented version of this language allowed variable names to have a maximum of 6 characters.  Variables whose names began with I, J, K, L, M, and N were implicitly integer type and all others were implicitly floating-point.
\par Answer:  }{\b FORTRAN}{
\par 2.  It was the first language to have 2 different methods of passing parameters \endash  one being by name and the other by value.  Versions of it include 58, 60, and 68 after the changes made in 1958, 1960,and 1968.
\par Answer:  }{\b ALGOL
\par }{3.  It was the first major object-oriented programming language.  The concepts that led to the development of this language originated in Alan Kay\rquote s Ph.D. dissertation work.  It was implemented under Kay\rquote s direction at Xerox PARC by 1980.

\par Answer:  }{\b Smalltalk}{
\par 
\par 7. FTP each answer these questions about 17}{\super th}{ century art:
\par 1.  He painted }{\i The Banquet of the Officers of the St. George Militia Company}{ along with many lighthearted portraits.
\par Answer:  Frans }{\b Hals}{
\par 2.  Judith and her husband Molenaer were both painters.  Judith's monogram includes a star which was a play on her last name.  Give the common last name.
\par Answer:  }{\b Leyster}{
\par 3.  Judith and Molenaer Leyster belonged in their youth to the circle of Frans Hals which made this city one of the great centers of painting in their time.  FTP name this city which also houses the Frans Hals Museum.
\par Answer:  }{\b Haarlem}{, Netherlands
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {8. Answer these questions about European history FTSNOP:
\par 5. For an easy five, identify the vast state founded in the late 13th century by Turkish tribes in Anatolia and ruled by the descendants of Osman I until its dissolution in 1918.
\par  Answer: }{\b Ottoman}{ Empire
\par 10. Identify the battle between the Christians and Ottomans fought at the mouth of the Gulf of Patras where the fleet of the Holy League commanded by John of Austria opposed the Ottoman fleet under Ulu\'e7 Ali Pasha.
\par Answer: }{\b Lepanto}{
\par 15. With the treaty of Karlowitz, the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire began.  FTP, identify the term designating the problem of European territory controlled by the decaying Ottoman Empire in the 18th, 19th, and early 20}{\super th}{ centuries.

\par Answer: }{\b Eastern Question
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {9. Paul Valery and Jules Romains are in.  Yet these men are out.  On a 15-5 basis, name these writers who were never elected to the Academie Francaise.
\par 1. 15. For six months he travel
ed about the coal-mining district in northern France and Belgium, especially the Borinage around Mons, with a notebook in hand in preparation for one of his novels.  'He was inquisitive, was that gentleman', one miner said about him.  
\par       5. He wrote }{\i Germinal}{ as well as }{\i Nana}{.
\par Answer:  Emile }{\b Zola}{
\par 2. 15. Not only are French, Italian, Spanish, Turkish, and Sicilian dialects used, but he took advantage of his audience\rquote s delight with geolinguistic mimicry in such plays as }{\i Monsieur de Pourceaugnac}{, where he in
troduced characters who masqueraded as Picards and Gascons, complete with their provincial dialects.
\par      5. He also wrote such works as }{\i The Misanthrope}{ and }{\i The Miser}{.
\par Answer:  }{\b Moliere }{or Jean Baptiste }{\b Poquelin}{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {10. For the stated number of points, identify these geological periods from descriptions:
\par 5. This Era contained the rise and fall of dinosaurs. It includes the periods Triassic, Cretaceous, and everyone\rquote s favorite, Jurassic.
\par  Answer:  }{\b Mesozoic}{
\par 10. The most prominent animals during this Age of Fishes
 were jawed and bony fishes.  It was a time of great tectonic activity, as Laurasia and Gondwanaland drew closer together. It was named by the geologists Sir Roderick Impey Murchison and Adam Sedgwick for the place in England where they first investigated
 rocks formed during the period.
\par Answer: }{\b Devonian}{
\par 15. During this latest epoch, withdrawal of the glacial ice resulted in the development of the present-day drainage basins of the Missouri and Ohio rivers.  The Great Lakes were formed, and primates created a game called College Bowl.
\par   Answer: }{\b Holocene}{
\par 
\par 11. FTSNOP identify these ancient battles:
\par 5. Octavian won this decisive battle over Anthony off the west coast of Greece in 31 B.C.
\par Answer:  }{\b Actium
\par }{10. In this 216 BC battle the Romans led by consuls Gaius Terentius Varro and Lucius Aemilius Paullus were defeated by Hannibal in what is now southeast Italy.
\par Answer:  }{\b Cannae}{
\par 15. At this 326 BC battle, Alexander the Great led his Macedonian army to defeat the forces of King Porus, but the troops demanded a return home.
\par Answer:  }{\b Hydaspes
\par }{
\par 12. Identify these physics units from the description of the man they were named for FTP, or from what they stand for, FFP.
\par 1. 10. This German physicist was professor at Munich from 1852 to 1854, when he died. He made studies in acoustics and in crystal interference and his writings include }{\i The Galvanic Current Investigated Mathematically}{.
\par       5. This is the unit for electrical resistance.
\par  Answer: }{\b Ohm}{
\par 2. 10. This professor of mathematics at the \'c9cole Polytechnique, and later at the Coll\'e8ge de France confirmed and amplified the work of Oersted on the relationship of electricity and magnetism.  He also invented the astatic needle.
\par        5.  This is the unit of electrical current.
\par Answer: }{\b Ampere}{
\par 3. 10. He developed the first dynamo
 in the form of a copper disk rotated between the poles of a permanent magnet. From his discovery of electromagnetic induction stemmed a vast development of electrical machinery for industry. In 1825, he discovered the compound benzene.
\par       5. This is the unit for electrical capacitance
\par Answer: }{\b Faraday}{
\par 
\par 13. Some Georgia Tech dude bought some books. Identify them FTSNOP.
\par 5. At last year's sale, I scored a copy of }{\i Unfair Arguments with Existence}{, a group of plays by this man.  This year, I got the more popular }{\i A Coney Island of the Mind}{.
\par Answer:  Lawrence }{\b Ferlinghetti}{
\par 5. I also picked up a copy of this work, subtitled }{\i Krishna's Counsel in a Time of War}{.  Name this selection from the }{\i Mahabharata}{.
\par Answer:  }{\b Bhagavad-Gita}{
\par 10. As both of those titles were fifty cents, I was able to splurge and spend two big bucks on a Kafka biography.  The author is the same man Kafka instructed to destroy his work.  FTP, name him.
\par Answer: Max }{\b Brod}{
\par 10.  My biggest purchase was a hardback collection of the writings of "The Immortal Prophet of Lebanon" that cost me three dollars.  FTP, name this author of }{\i Sand and Foam}{ and }{\i The Prophet}{.
\par Answer: Kahlil }{\b Gibran
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {14. During the period from 1539-1542, 2 explorers from Spain traversed America.  Name them on a 15-5 basis.
\par 1. 15. In 1539, he landed in Florida and explored the interior of North America.
\par       5. In 1541, he reached and crossed the Mississippi River, traveling west to Oklahoma and returning and dying at the Mississippi in 1542.
\par Answer:  Hernando }{\b de Soto}{
\par 2. 15. He started from Mexico, explored the region west of the Mississippi and north of Mexico as far as Kansas.
\par       5. In search of the 7 Cities of Cibola, he was the first to explore Arizona and New Mexico.
\par Answer:  Francisco Vazquez de }{\b Coronado}{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {15.  30-20-10 Identify the man.
\par 30. The US Ambassador to India from 1961-3, his works include }{\i The Liberal Hour}{ and }{\i Made to Last}{.
\par 20.  Born in Canada, he argued that the rise of the major corporation had short-circuited the old laws of the economic market in his }{\i The New Industrial State}{.  He advocated government spending to fight unemployment and using more of the nation
\rquote s wealth for public services and less for private consumption.
\par 10.  He wrote }{\i The Affluent Society}{.
\par Answer:  John Kenneth }{\b Galbraith
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {16. Conic sections and stuff. FTP each.
\par 1. What is the chord perpendicular to the principal axis and passing through a focus of an ellipse, parabola, or hyperbola?
\par Answer: }{\b Latus Rectum}{
\par 2. A parabola is the locus of points equidistant from a focus and what line?
\par Answer: }{\b directrix}{
\par 3. For a final ten, identify the Greek mathematician who introduced the terms parabola, hyperbola, and ellipse in his treatise on conic sections
\par Answer: }{\b Appollonius}{ of Perga
\par 
\par 17. On a 10-5 basis given works, name the composer.
\par 1. 10. }{\i The King's Children}{, }{\i Moorish Rhapsody}{
\par       5. }{\i The Canteen Woman}{, }{\i Hansel and Gretel}{
\par Answer:  Engelbert }{\b Humperdinck}{
\par 2. 10. }{\i Pilgrim's Progress}{, }{\i Riders to the Sea}{, }{\i A Pastoral Symphony}{
\par       5. }{\i A London Symphony}{, }{\i Five Mystical Songs}{, }{\i Sir John in Love}{
\par Answer:  Ralph }{\b Vaughn Williams}{
\par 3. 10. }{\i Spanish Capriccio}{, }{\i May Night}{ 
\par       5. }{\i The Golden Cockerel}{, }{\i Scheherezade}{
\par Answer:  Nicolai }{\b Rimsky-Korsakov
\par 
\par }{18. FTP each name these banned books, if you need the author, you\rquote ll get 5:
\par 1. 10. In 1933, the US district court voided the ban on this book, which was re
peatedly burned and confiscated as obscene by the US Post Office.  Judge John M. Woolsey, in his decision called it "a sincere and honest book" and said, "I do not detect anywhere the leer of a sensualist".  It was first excerpted }{\i 
in The Little Review}{ and published in book form by Sylvia Beach.
\par       5. James Joyce
\par Answer: }{\b Ulysses}{
\par 2. 10. This work was similarly cleared in a case brought by the NY Society for the Prevention of Vice in 1933.  It concerns shiftless and amoral Georgia mountaineers.
\par       5. Erskine Caldwell
\par Answer:  }{\b God's Little Acre}{
\par 3. 10. Published in 1961, it was widely known since its 1934 publication in Paris, but barred from the US until this time by censors who branded it "obscene."  It was an autobiographical novel which chronicled numer
ous encounters with women, including his mysterious wife Mona.
\par       5. Henry Miller
\par Answer:  }{\b Tropic of Cancer}{
\par 
\par 19. FTP each identify these islands of the Atlantic:
\par 1.  Economic problems of this archipelago of 10 large and five small islands, have been compounded by tens of thousands of Angolan refugees.  Lying 350 miles off of Dakar, it was linked with Guinea-Bissau in the fight against colonial rule.
\par Answer}{\b :  Cape Verde}{
\par 2.  It was discovered in 1418 and its name comes from the Portugese word for "wood" since it was a heavily wooded island.  It lies about 560 miles southwest of Lisbon.
\par Answer:  }{\b Madeira}{
\par 3.  The easternmost of this group of islands is about 750 miles west of Portugal.  Discovered in 1427 by Diogo de Sevilha, they are part of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.
\par Answer:  }{\b Azores}{
\par 
\par 20. Identify these Harding administration officials FTP each:
\par 1.  This Secretary of the Interior was found to have accepted a bribe and leased naval oil reserves at Teapot Dome, Wyoming, and in California to a private oil company.
\par Answer:  Albert B. }{\b Fall}{
\par 2.  This Secretary of the Navy was innocently involved and resigned.
\par Answer:  Edwin N. }{\b Denby
\par }{3.  For a final ten points, name Harding\rquote  s secretary of state.
\par Answer: Charles Evans }{\b Hughes
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {21. 30-20-10 Name the composer.
\par 30.  He helped found the Gunter School at the Academy of Music at Munich.  He composed }{\i Trionfo di Afrodite}{.
\par 20.  He wanted to simplify music and return to its basic components.  He also composed the operas }{\i Der}{ }{\i Mond}{ and }{\i Die Kluge}{.
\par 10.  His work in music education has sparked interest in the United States.  He is most famous for the }{\i Carmina Burana}{, the first work in his trilogy.
\par Answer:  Carl }{\b Orff
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {22. Name the composers from works on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 5. }{\i Orpheus in the Underworld}{
\par Answer:  Jacques }{\b Offenbach}{
\par 10.}{\i  Knickerbocker Holiday}{, }{\i Threepenny Opera}{
\par Answer:  Kurt }{\b Weill}{
\par 15. }{\i Blossom Time}{, }{\i The Student Prince}{
\par Answer:  Sigmund }{\b Romberg}{
\par 
\par 23. Answer the following questions about trees FTSNOP.
\par 10. Identify the tissue that forms the bulk of the stem of a woody plant. It conducts sap upward from the roots to the leaves, stores food in the form of complex carbohydrates, and provides support for the tree
\par  Answer: }{\b xylem}{
\par 15. As the wood cells age, the older, nonfunctional cells become plugged up, darken in color, and often accumulate bitte
r or poisonous substances such as tannins and gum(tannins, dyes, resins, and gums). Identify this inner wood  valued for outdoor construction because of its resistance to moisture and to decay-producing organisms.
\par  Answer: The }{\b Heartwood}{
\par 5. What is the science of dating trees through its rings?
\par  Answer: }{\b Dendrochronology}{
\par 
\par 24. Kickin\rquote  it with Santayana, boyee!
\par 5. For 5 points who wrote the five volume work which he called a "biography of the human intellect", The Life of Reason?
\par Answer:  George }{\b Santayana}{
\par 25.  For 5 points each name the 5 volumes.
\par Answer:  }{\b Reason in Common Sense, Reason in Society, Reason in Religion, Reason in Art,  and Reason in Science
\par }{
\par 25. FTP each answer the following about the Presidential Election of 1872.
\par 1.  This New York newspaper reporter was nominated along with Benjamin Gratz Brown of Missouri as his running mate by the Liberal Republicans, the Liberal Colored Republicans, and the Democrats.
\par Answer:  Horace }{\b Greeley}{
\par 2.  The Republicans renominated this man for President.
\par Answer:  Ulysses S. }{\b Grant}{
\par 3.  The "Straight" Democrats picked Charles O'Connor of NY for President and this man from Massachussetts for Vice President.
\par Answer:  }{\b J}{ohn }{\b Q}{uincy }{\b Adams}{
\par }}