{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f90\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0704030504030204}Arial Rounded MT Bold;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\li1440\widctlpar\tx0\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Verse Citation;}{\s16\qj\widctlpar\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\posy0\dxfrtext187\dfrmtxtx187\dfrmtxty187\adjustright \b\f90\fs96\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Songlist;}{\s17\widctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text;}}{\info{\title TOSSUP:}{\author Joon Pahk}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords4400}{\nofchars25085}
{\*\company Harvard University}{\nofcharsws30806}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\b\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Harvard A (Joon Pahk, David Farris, Guy Jordan)
\par Tossups}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 1. An example of this technique is: \ldblquote I caught this morning morning\rquote s minion, kingdom of daylight\rquote s dauphin, dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon, in his riding.\rdblquote  Characterized by 
alliteration and the use of archaic and heavily Anglo-Saxon vocabulary, it replaces metrical smoothness with heavy accents and abrupt halts, as in such works as \ldblquote God\rquote s Grandeur\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Pied Beauty.\rdblquote 
 FTP, name this metric device most famously employed by Gerard Manley Hopkins.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 sprung rhythm}{\fs20  (prompt on early buzz of \ldblquote alliteration\rdblquote  or \ldblquote accent meter\rdblquote )
\par 
\par 2. They are characterized by a wave function which is anti-symmetric under the operator representing particle interchange. As a result, when they are tight
ly packed, they exhibit a strong quantum-mechanical degeneracy pressure responsible for the stability of white dwarves and neutron stars. They include all leptons, baryons, and quarks, because they all have half-integer spin. FTP, name this class of parti
cles which obey the Pauli exclusion principle, consisting of anything which is not a boson.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 fermion}{\fs20 s
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {3. It was sparked when troops fired on demonstrators supporting Polish reforms, and the man whose 2-year term as premier had ended a year before wa
s restored. That man immediately instituted reforms, sought UN aid to preserve neutrality, and withdrew his nation from the Warsaw Pact. However, Janos K\'e1d\'e1
r called in the Soviets, who crushed the uprising from November 4 to 14. FTP, name this revolt, which ousted Matyas Rakosi in favor of Imre Nagy (NOZH).
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer: 19}{\b\fs20 56 Hungarian}{\fs20  Revolution (prompt on partial answer)
\par 
\par 4. He introduced chords built in fourths instead of the usual major/minor triads to produce an exotic effect in his piano sonatas and such works as }{\i\fs20 Satanic Poem}{\fs20 
. He also attempted to get interesting effects through the fusion of music and philosophy in the programmatic }{\i\fs20 Divine Poem}{\fs20 , and both colors and scents in the planned but unexecuted }{\i\fs20 Mysterium}{\fs20 
. However, he did finish a piece calling for a color organ to produce a light show on a screen. FTP, name this Russian composer of }{\i\fs20 Prometheus: A Poem of Fire}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Aleksandr Nikolayevich }{\b\fs20 Scriabin}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 5. The side chains point radially outward, and approximately every fourth unit is hydrogen-bonded to an 
adjacent one, which gives this structure its stability. Discovered by Linus Pauling, its name comes from its shape and from the fact that it was the first secondary polypeptide structure to be classified. FTP, what name is given to this polypeptide chain 
segment in the shape of a coil?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 alpha helix}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. His fianc\'e9e worked for a \ldblquote hideous Jew in the most amazing waistcoat ever beheld in this life.\rdblquote  He thought her an amazing Juliet, but when he rebuffed her she committed suicide. Later, the name he used 
in his dealings with her came back to haunt him when her brother, James Vane, came upon him and recognized this \ldblquote Prince Charming.\rdblquote 
 He was saved by the fact that he did not look as old as Vane expected, but he died when he tried to destroy the object that absorbed his moral degradation. FTP, name this title character of Oscar Wilde\rquote s only novel.
\par Answer: (The Picture of) }{\b\fs20 Dorian Grey
\par }{\fs20 
\par 7. It operates 5,400 schools, 87 colleges, including La Sierra University and Walla Walla College, and 161 hospitals, including
 a pioneer in heart transplants and the separation of Siamese twins that is located in the Los Angeles-area city that is its biggest American center, Loma Linda.  FTP, identify this Protestant denomination based on the writings of cofounder Ellen White, w
hose name comes from its belief that the Sabbath should be obeyed on Saturday.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Seventh Day Adventist}{\fs20 s
\par 
\par 8. This name, meaning \ldblquote stone of help,\rdblquote  was given to a battle fought northeast of Jaffa where, according to chapter 4 of First Samuel, the Israelit
es were defeated by the Philistines, who promptly captured the ark of the covenant.  It also denotes a stone which was erected by Samuel near Mizpah to celebrate a subsequent Israeli triumph over the Philistines.  FTP, give this name which is the given na
me of the central characters in John Barth's }{\i\fs20 Sotweed Factor}{\fs20  and Dickens' }{\i\fs20 Christmas Carol}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Ebenezer}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 9. Centered at 19 degrees North latitude, 133 degrees West longitude, it consists of a central edifice 17 miles high and 335 miles across that is sur
rounded by an outward-facing cliff up to about 6 miles high. At the summit is an 53-mile diameter caldera. The low slopes of its flanks and the presence of numerous long flows and lava channels suggest that it consists largely of relatively fluid basaltic
 lava. For ten points, name this largest known volcano, several times larger than the largest on Earth.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Olympus Mons}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 10. Its 3rd section states that nobody who engaged in \ldblquote insurrection or rebellion against\rdblquote  the US can hold any government job unless
 permitted by a 2/3 majority in both Houses of Congress.  Its 4th says that the US will not assume the debts of the states involved in such insurrections.  And its first article defines citizenship and says that \ldblquote 
No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges of immunities of citizens of the United States.\rdblquote  FTP, identify this constitutional amendment.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 14}{\fs20 th Amendment
\par 
\par 11. She meets the son of Pandion, who has come from Delphi seeking a remedy for his infertility, which she offers to cure with drugs if he will take her in after her impending exile. For Creon, the father of her husband\rquote 
s new woman, is pushing her out of Corinth, which he rules. Before she left, though, she had the other woman killed by poison put on a gift of 
a crown that her children have, who she also slew. FTP, name this subject of a Euripides play, the troublesome wife of Jason.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Medea}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 12. The German contingent went across the Alps to Italy, but no further, and most had died or deserted by then. The
 French group went by ship to Alexandria. However, the survivors of those 30,000 followers of Stephen of Cloyes were sold into slavery, and, like their counterparts under Nicholas of Cologne, never quite managed to liberate the Holy Land. FTP, identify th
is 1212 undertaking, alluded to in a Kurt Vonnegut subtitle, which led to a tragic end for thousands of youths.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Children\rquote s Crusade
\par 
\par }{\fs20 13. Applications of this type of data structure include parsing mathematical expressions and calling subroutines from
 parent programs, but NOT reading from an input stream or running processes in the order in which they were called. It can be implemented in order-one time in real life as a to-do box which is open at only one end, or in a program by a singly-linked list,
 since pushing and popping can all be done at the head. FTP, name this data structure which uses a last-in, first-out system.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 stack}{\fs20  (prompt on \ldblquote LIFO\rdblquote  or \ldblquote last-in, first-out\rdblquote  on early buzz)}{\b\fs20 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 14. It\rquote s not }{\i\fs20 Romeo and Juliet}{\fs20 , but it features characters named Juliet and Escalus, and important roles played by a friar and a meddlesome Duke. In it, Claudio faces a death sentence for getting his fianc\'e9
e pregnant, but the draconian Angelo agrees to let him off the hook only in exchange for the sexual favors of Claudio\rquote 
s virtuous sister Isabella. FTP, name this Shakespearean comedy, which takes its title from a passage from the Sermon on the Mount beginning, \ldblquote Judge not, that ye may not be judged.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Measure for Measure}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 15. A window along the upper left rim
 provides the only source of light.  The face of the lone figure in the painting is that of a 20-year old man whose hand, magnified and severely distorted, takes up the bottom fifth of the canvas.  FTP, identify this painting in the Vienna Museum of Art H
istory, with a diameter of 24.4 centimeters, by Parmagianino, which is also the subject of a famous poem by John Ashbery.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 16. He helped found the Kiangsi Soviet Party, and served as a theorist and military leader in
 Yanan from 1936 until 1945, at which point he began the effort for the party he co-founded in 1921 to gain control of his nation, which he did in 1949. FTP, name this man who led the 1934-35 Long March and ruled China until his 1976 death.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Mao}{\fs20  Zedong or }{\b\fs20 Mao}{\fs20  Tse-Tung
\par 
\par 17. She was brought up by Conchobar, King of Ulster, who planned to marry her. However, she fell in love with his nephew No\'edse and they fled to Scotland, accompanied by his two brothers. Emissaries of the king induced them to return to
 Ireland, and when they did, Conchobar had the three brothers treacherously killed, and she died of grief. FTP, name this woman from Gaelic legend, whose beauty was foretold to bring sorrow to all of Ireland.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Deirdre}{\fs20  of the Sorrows
\par 
\par 18. It is equal
 to the enthalpy change minus the temperature times the entropy change. Under standard conditions, it is also equal to negative R T times the natural log of K, where R is the gas law constant, T is the absolute temperature, and K is the equilibrium consta
nt for the reaction; thus a high negative value indicates a forward-going reaction. FTP, identify this quantity, named for a Yale chemist, which is a measure of the spontaneity of a reaction.
\par Answer: change in }{\b\fs20 Gibbs free energy}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 19. It concludes: \ldblquote None can call himself fully contented who has not tasted love in [a woman\rquote s] arms,\rdblquote  after lamenting that women, \ldblquote simple in speech and simple in mind,\rdblquote 
 are highly changeable. It comes just before the singer makes a pass at a gypsy while an earlier conquest observes 
with her father, who has hired Sparafucile to kill the singer. FTP, identify this aria, sung by the Duke of Mantua before his ill-fated court jester, Rigoletto.
\par Answer: La }{\b\fs20 Donna \-e Mobile}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 20. The narrative in this work is in a spiral structure that repeats most of the book\rquote s events several times from only slightly different perspectives. A repeated refrain alludes to Fran\'e7ois Villon\rquote s }{\i\fs20 
Ballade des Dames du Temps Jadis}{\fs20  (bah-LOD day DOM doo TOM zha-DEE), but the question has been changed to \ldblquote Where are the Snowdens of yesteryear?\rdblquote  Other important characters include Aarfy, Clevinger, Appleby, and Nately\rquote 
s whore\rquote s kid sister. FTP, name this novel about the pilot Yossarian, whose title is now used to describe any lose-lose situation.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Catch-22}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 21. The fina
l two, launched within two days of each other in June 1963, carried Valery Bykovsky and Valentina Tereshkova.  The previous two of them, 3 and 4, were also launched in a pair, and actually orbited the Earth in sight of each other.  FTP, identify this seri
es of Soviet spacecraft, which first carried Yuri Gagarin into orbit in April 1961.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Vostok}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 22. Officially a part of the Nellis Air Force Bombing and Gunnery Range, it was first acknowledged by John Hanes, who conceded that there was an installation
 at Groom Lake, Nevada, but declined to elaborate.  FTP, identify this top-secret Air Force Base, believed to be a center for everything from secret aircraft testing to alien autopsy.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Area 51}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 23. It was founded as Kart-Hadasht, meaning "New Town,"
 and it is now a suburb of a world capital. The Byrsu, its ancient citadel, was on a hill overlooking the sea. When it was plundered and burned, its conquerors forbid all human habitation on its site, but it was re-founded and later captured by the Vandal
s, the Byzantine empire, and, in 705, the Arabs. FTP, name this city which may have been founded by Dido, and whose wars with Rome brought about its destruction in 146 BC.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Carthage}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 24. Its first published proof used the calculus of variations, alth
ough a letter to Bessel shows that Gauss was aware of the result 14 years earlier. In an 1883 article, a later mathematician offered a proof that removed the unstated hypothesis that the function's derivative must be continuous; however, the existence and
 continuity of all derivatives follow from an important corollary. FTP, name this fundamental result of complex analysis, which states that the integral of an analytic function around a closed loop is 0.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Cauchy}{\fs20 -Goursat}{\b\fs20  }{\fs20 Theorem}{\b\fs20  }{\fs20 or }{\b\fs20 Cauchy}{\fs20 \rquote s}{\b\fs20  }{\fs20 Integral Theorem
\par (do }{\b\fs20 not}{\fs20  accept Cauchy's Integral Formula)
\par 
\par 25. He was successfully defended by Andrew Hamilton after being jailed in 1734, charged with seditious criticisms of Governor William Cosby of New York in his Weekly Journal.  FTP, identify this man, whose 
court case ruled that it was not seditious libel to make truthful allegations against the government.
\par Answer: John Peter }{\b\fs20 Zenger}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 26. His life\rquote s achievement was inspired by a picture of a burning city in a book his father gave him. He became a US citizen af
ter getting rich as a military contractor in the Crimean War. He argued that Bunarbashi was not the site he desired to find, but that Hisarlik was, in his 1868 }{\i\fs20 Ithaca, the Peloponnes & Troy}{\fs20 
. FTP, name this man who later proved his claim in his excavations.
\par Answer: Heinrich }{\b\fs20 Schliemann}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 27. A subplot in this work concerns the love of the young and impressionable Arkady for Katya Odintsova. Major roles are also played by Katya\rquote s sister Anna, the love interest of the main character, and Arkady\rquote s uncle Pavel, wh
o is wounded in a duel with the same. The duel is fought over a perceived generational conflict between the men of the 40\rquote s and the nihilists, exemplified by Evgeny Bazarov. FTP, identify this novel by Ivan Turgenev.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Fathers and Sons}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Fathers and Children}{\fs20 ; also accept }{\b\fs20 Ottsy i deti}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 28. All types, M, N, and O, and subtypes of M exist together only in Cameroon and Gabon, which corresponds to the range of }{\i\fs20 pan troglodytes troglodytes}{\fs20 , in which a predecessor of it arose even before the species diverged
 100,000 years ago. However, it wasn\rquote 
t until this century that urbanization and its effects made human-to-human transmission so widespread that its effects could be detected and documented for the first time in the death of a Bantu man in Kinshasa in 1959.
 FTP, name this retro-virus, a mutation of the Simian Immunodeficiency Virus, which is believed to cause AIDS.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 H}{\fs20 uman }{\b\fs20 I}{\fs20 mmunodeficiency }{\b\fs20 V}{\fs20 irus-1
\par 
\par 29. The jewel-encrusted instrument was provided by, and afterwards returned unwashed to, the Emperor, and it was observed by several official witnesses and a sword-carrying loyal friend. It eventually became permissible to draw immediately upon the friend
\rquote s services rather than begin oneself, but many did not take advantage of it. FTP, name this privileged alternative granted to disloyal daimyo and samurai, known as both seppuku and the original Japanese words, which mean \ldblquote belly cutting.
\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 harakiri}{\fs20  (HAR-uh-KEE-ree)
\par 
\par 30. It is believed that between 60,000 and 90,000 people in the U.S. live under this system.  It is opposed by Rowena Erickson\rquote s Tapestry group, composed of women who once participated in it, and supported by the ACLU and the Women\rquote 
s Religious Liberties Union.  FTP, identify this practice that has been called \ldblquote Utah\rquote s dirty little secret,\rdblquote  a tenet banned in the 19th century by the Mormon church.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 polygamy}{\fs20 
\par \page }{\b\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Harvard A (Joon Pahk, David Farris, Guy Jordan)
\par Bonuses}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 1. Name the following works of absurdism from descriptions, 10 points each.
\par 1. The protagonist of this Eugene Ionesco play is plagued by the fear of remaining a human being.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Rhinoceros}{\fs20 
\par 2. This work, also known as }{\i\fs20 The Diary of Antoine Roquentin}{\fs20 , chronicles Roquentin\rquote s disgusted discovery that it is only when he has nothing to live for that he becomes truly free.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Nausea}{\fs20  or La }{\b\fs20 Naus\'e9e}{\fs20  by Jean-Paul Sartre
\par 3. This play by Jean Genet focuses on two sisters, Claire and Solange, who try to poison their employer because of a confused swap of good and evil moral values.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Maids}{\fs20  or Les }{\b\fs20 Bonnes}{\fs20 
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par }{\fs20 2. Identify these American sculptors FTP each.
\par 1. After studying under Abigail Alcott and William Morris Hunt, he produced the }{\i\fs20 Minute Man}{\fs20 . His most famous work is the big-ass sculpture of Abe in the Lincoln Memorial.
\par Answer: Daniel Chester }{\b\fs20 French}{\fs20 
\par 2. An extremely talented painter who traveled to the West when he was 19, this man\rquote s sculptures include }{\i\fs20 Bronco Buster}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Medicine Man}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Trooper of the Plains}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Frederic Sackrider }{\b\fs20 Remington}{\fs20 
\par 3. His most famous work depicts a young maiden who has been 
captured by Turks and put on the slave block. A nearby cross shows her to be a Christian; her faith protects her and gives her strength, which is why even ministers advised people to view it. FTP, identify this sculptor of 1843\rquote s }{\i\fs20 
Greek Slave}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Hiram }{\b\fs20 Powers}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs20 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 3. Answer the following questions about a South American conflict for 10 points each.
\par 1. Which 1879-1884 war began when Chile invaded the coastal province of Antofagasta?
\par Answer: War of the }{\b\fs20 Pacific}{\fs20 
\par 2. All or nothing, name Chile\rquote s two opponents in that war.
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Chile}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Peru}{\fs20 
\par 3. Identify either the 1883 treaty between Chile and Peru by which Chile acquired mineral-rich land from Peru or the 1884 treaty where Bolivia signed over its entire coastline to Chile.
\par Answer: Treaty of }{\b\fs20 Ancon}{\fs20  or Treaty of }{\b\fs20 Valparaiso
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\fs20 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 4. 30-20-10, name the mathematical property.
\par 30. An integral domain that has }{\i\fs20 n}{\fs20 -torsion for any natural number }{\i\fs20 n}{\fs20  must have this property.
\par 20. By Wedderburn\rquote s Theorem, a division ring with this property must be a field. The order of any field with this property must be a power of a prime number.
\par 10. In set theory, it describes a set that is equinumerous to some natural number. Its opposite is hard to grasp, but in complex analysis, its opposite corresponds to the north pole on the Riemann sphere.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 finite}{\fs20 ness
\par 
\par 5. Name these social scientists from works, 10 points each.
\par 1. }{\i\fs20 Folkways; Science of Society}{\fs20 
\par Answer: William Graham }{\b\fs20 Sumner}{\fs20 
\par 2. }{\i\fs20 What is Property?
\par }{\fs20 Answer: Pierre Joseph }{\b\fs20 Proudhon}{\fs20 
\par 3. }{\i\fs20 Childhood and Society}{\fs20 ; }{\i\fs20 Identity: Youth and Crisis}{\fs20 
\par Answer: Erik }{\b\fs20 Erikson
\par 
\par }{\fs20 6. Identify the cities in Europe where you would find the following attractions for 10 points each.
\par 1. The grave of Paracelsus, as well as the Monchsberg, the largest preserved medieval fortress in Central Europe.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Salzburg}{\fs20 
\par 2. The Boboli Gardens, and the Palazzo Pitti.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Florence}{\fs20 
\par 3. The Villa D'Este and the Villa of Hadrian
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Tivoli}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 7. You have a photon of wavelength lambda. Let }{\i\fs20 h}{\fs20  be Planck\rquote s constant, }{\i\fs20 m}{\fs20  be the mass of the electron, and }{\i\fs20 c}{\fs20  be the speed of light. Then for 10 points each\emdash 
\par 1. What is the energy of the photon?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 hc/lambda}{\fs20 
\par 2. What is the momentum carried by the photon?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 h/lambda}{\fs20 
\par 3. If the photon collides with an electron at rest and Compton-scatters through 90 degrees, what will be its new wavelength?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 lambda + h/mc
\par 
\par }{\fs20 8. 30-20-10, name the book.
\par 30. In Wilkie Collins\rquote  }{\i\fs20 The Moonstone}{\fs20 , Gabriel Betteredge uses it in the place of a Bible or a copy of Virgil\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Aeneid}{\fs20 ; that is, he opens to a random page and reads from it when he needs advice or wisdom.

\par 20. Its author based it on the narratives of Alexander Selkirk, and it in turn was the basis for such retellings as those rendered by J.M. Coetzee and Michel Tournier.
\par 10. The title character of this Daniel Defoe work is a mariner from York.
\par Answer: The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of }{\b\fs20 Robinson Crusoe}{\fs20 , of York, Mariner
\par 
\par 9. Answer these questions about the Hundred Years\rquote  War\emdash specifically, the first 23 years\emdash for 10 points each.
\par 1. It began in 1337 when this English king claimed that he, not Philip VI, was king of France.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Edward III}{\fs20 
\par 2. English forces captured Philip\rquote s successor, King John the Good, at this Sept 19, 1356 rout.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\fs20 Poitiers}{\fs20 
\par 3. John was returned to France, and England received Calais and a chunk of Aquitaine by the terms of this 1360 treaty.
\par Answer: Treaty of }{\b\fs20 Bretigny}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 10. Given a description of a sorting mechanism, identify the sort for 10 points, and also indicate the big-O order of the sort in terms of }{\i\fs20 n}{\fs20 , the number of data elements, for another 5 points.
\par 15. Find the smallest element, and swap it with the first element. Then find the next element, and swap it with the second. Repeat this procedure }{\i\fs20 n}{\fs20  times.
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 selection}{\fs20  sort (for 10 points), order }{\b\fs20 n-squared }{\fs20 (for 5 points)
\par 15. Pick an element at random. Then swap all other elements smaller than it to its left, and all larger elements to its right. Then recursively perform the same procedure on each of the two arrays thus formed.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 quick}{\fs20  sort (for 10 points), order }{\b\fs20 n log n }{\fs20 (for 5 points)
\par 
\par 11. Identify the following people related to Romulus and Remus for 5 points per answer.
\par 10. Their maternal grandfather and his brother, the two sons of the king Proca who feuded over succession
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Numitor}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Amulius}{\fs20 
\par 10. Both of their parents
\par Answers:: }{\b\fs20 Rhea}{\fs20  Silvia and }{\b\fs20 Mars}{\fs20  (do }{\b\fs20 not}{\fs20  accept Ares)
\par 10. Their foster parents, a shepherd and his wife
\par Answers:: }{\b\fs20 Faustulus }{\fs20 and Acca }{\b\fs20 Larentia}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 12. Given a massacre, name the US state in which it occurred for 10 points each.
\par 1. Wounded Knee
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 South Dakota}{\fs20 
\par 2. Wyoming Massacre
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Pennsylvania}{\fs20 
\par 3. Mountain Meadows Massacre
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Utah
\par 
\par }{\fs20 13. Identify these types of coal FTP each.
\par 1. Over time, as peat is compressed and heated, it transforms into this, a soft brownish-black coallike material composed of about 70 percent carbon.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 lignite}{\fs20 
\par 2. As lignite is subjected to greater depths of burial, it may metamorphose into this substance, also called soft coal.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 bituminous}{\fs20  coal
\par 3. Continued burial and structural deformation will cause soft coal to turn into this hard type of coal, which is more than 90 percent carbon.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 anthracite}{\fs20 
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par }{\fs20 14. Answer these questions about a certain author FTP each.
\par 1. Identify this contemporary Portuguese author of }{\i\fs20 Blindness}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Year Of The Death Of Ricardo Reis}{\fs20 .
\par Answer: Jose }{\b\fs20 Saramago}{\fs20 
\par 2. The title object of this novel by Saramago is actually the entirety of the Iberian Peninsula, which has separated from France at the Pyrenees.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Stone Raft}{\fs20 
\par 3. The hero of this novel is a proofreader attempting to rewrite a piece of Portugal\rquote s past; along the way, he manages to also rewrite his own life.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20 History of the Siege of Lisbon
\par 
\par }{\fs20 15. Identify the strait FTP each.
\par 1. This strait separates Australia and Tasmania.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Bass}{\fs20  strait
\par 2. This strait connects the Gulf of Aqaba and the Red Sea.
\par Answer: Strait of }{\b\fs20 Tiran}{\fs20 
\par 3. This strait separates the Malay peninsula and Sumatra
\par Answer: Strait of }{\b\fs20 Malacca}{\fs20 
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par }{\fs20 16. Name these plays by Eugene O\rquote Neill from plot descriptions for 10 points each.
\par 1. Remarkably similar in plot and theme to Gorky\rquote s }{\i\fs20 The Lower Depths}{\fs20 
, this play concerns a group of derelicts at a bar who are happy with their pipe dreams until Theodore Hickman comes along to try to roust them out of their stupor.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Iceman Cometh}{\fs20 
\par 2. This play concerns Nina Leeds, who marries Sam, but has an affair with Dr. Darrell. Sam dies and Nina marries someone else.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Strange Interlude}{\fs20 
\par 3. Ella Downey, a white woman, tries to cope with her intellectual inferiority to her black husband Jim Harris. She does so by resorting to racial prejudice.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 All God\rquote s Chillun Got Wings
\par 
\par }{\fs20 17. Identify the following battles for 10 points each.
\par 1. This 1870 battle was the major battle of the Franco-Prussian War.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Sedan}{\fs20 
\par 2. The greatest military victory of Frederick the Great, this 1757 battle saw the Prussians defeat the French under the genius of Marshal Seydlitz, perhaps the greatest cavalry commander in German history.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Rossbach}{\fs20 
\par 3. This 1709 battle spelled doom for Charles XII at the hands of Peter the Great.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Poltava
\par 
\par }{\fs20 18. Name these pieces of music given titles of some of their movements, 10 points each.
\par 1. March to the Scaffolds; Dream of a witches\rquote  Sabbath
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Symphonie Fantastique}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Fantastic Symphony}{\fs20  by Hector Berlioz
\par 2. Aase\rquote s Death; Solveig\rquote s Lament
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Peer Gynt}{\fs20  Suites by Henrik Ibsen
\par 3. Adoration of the Earth; Glorification of the Chosen Victim
\par Answer: Le }{\b\fs20 Sacre du Printemps}{\fs20  or The }{\b\fs20 Rite of Spring}{\fs20  by Igor Stravinsky
\par 
\par 19. Identify the following about the action of enzymes for 10 points each.
\par 1. This is the term for the reacting molecule which is catalytically bound by an enzyme in order to speed its in some reaction.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 substrate}{\fs20 
\par 2. This term denotes the region on the surface of the enzyme where the substrate binds.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 active site}{\fs20 
\par 3. Effectors such as non-competitive inhibitors operate by binding the enzyme at a site other than the active site, which is known as this.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 allosteric }{\fs20 site}{\b\fs20 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 20. Identify these works by authors unpopular with Islamic fundamentalists, 10 points each.
\par 1. This 1993 novel by Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasrin provoked a }{\i\fs20 fatwa}{\fs20  against her due to its depiction of the persecution of a Hindu family by Muslims.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Shame}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Lajja}{\fs20 
\par 2. Salman Rushdie continued to draw controversy with this book, his first after }{\i\fs20 The Satanic Verses}{\fs20 . It is narrated by Moraes Zogoiby from a grave in Spain, who tells the story of a life in banishment from normal society.
\par Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Moor\rquote s Last Sigh}{\fs20 
\par 3. Naghib Mahfouz was stabbed in 1994 by fundamentalists upset with the secular slant of his work, including this trilogy, his most famous. It consists of }{\i\fs20 Palace Walk}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Palace of Desire}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Sugar Street}{\fs20 
.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Cairo}{\fs20  Trilogy}{\b\fs20 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 21. Answer the following questions about the Long Parliament for 10 points each.
\par 1. Who summoned the Long Parliament in 1640?
\par Answer: King }{\b\fs20 Charles I}{\fs20 
\par 2. What name is given to the 1648 expulsion of 140 members of the House of Commons, carried out by the regiment of the colonel for whom it is named, in preparation for the trial of Charles I?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Pride\rquote s Purge}{\fs20 
\par 3. What name is given to the remaining legislators in the wake of Pride\rquote s Purge?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Rump}{\fs20  Parliament}{\b\fs20 
\par }{\fs20 
\par 22. Identify the following classes of astronomical objects for 10 points each.
\par 1. This kind of star is supported from further collapse only by electron degeneracy pressure. An example is Sirius, the dog star.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 white dwarf}{\fs20 
\par 2. Also known as a pulsar, these objects are supported only by nucleon degeneracy from collapsing into black holes. They emit very regular radio pulses caused by the swirling electromagnetic fields which surround them.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 neutron star}{\fs20 s
\par 3. In contrast with globular clusters, these types of clusters contain only around 1000 stars, are found in the disk of the galaxy, and are relatively rich in heavy elements.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 open}{\fs20  clusters
\par 
\par 23. Identify the following about modern Russian art for 10 points each.
\par 1. This movement, began by Mikhail Larionov and practiced by him and Natalia Gonchaova, depicted rays of light bouncing off invisible surfaces and intersecting and dissolving.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 luchism}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 rayonism}{\fs20 
\par 2. This movement included Kasimir Malevich\rquote s \ldblquote White on White,\rdblquote  consisting of a tilted white square against a white background, differentiated only by differences in the brushstrokes and \ldblquote Black Trapezium and Red Square.
\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 suprematism}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {3.  El Lissitzky gave this title to all his abstract paintings, signifying \ldblquote Project for the affirmation of the new.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b proun
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 
\par 24. Identify the following about Israel and its foes for the stated number of points.
\par 10. This King of Damascus killed King Ahab of Israel in battle, before being overthrown by Hazael.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Benhadad}{\fs20 
\par 10. This Assyrian king, who overran the Kingdom of Israel in 722 BC, exiled 10 of the tribes of Israel.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Sargon II}{\fs20 
\par 10. Identify the two tribes of the 12 not exiled with the others for five points each.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Benjamin}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Judah}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 25. Answer the following questions about aviation for the stated number of points.
\par 20. For 10 points each, identify the name and manufacturer of Charles Lindbergh\rquote s plane on his 1927 transatlantic flight.
\par Answers: }{\b\fs20 Spirit of St. Louis}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Ryan}{\fs20 
\par 10. Which man, the secretary of the Smithsonian, built and crashed the Aerodrome and the Great Aerodrome, built on a $50 thousand grant from the U.S. Army to build an airplane?
\par Answer: Samuel Pierpont }{\b\fs20 Langley}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 26. Identify these American novels from important quotes which are NOT their opening or closing lines, for 10 points each.
\par 1. Know, then, that for you is neither surfeit nor content. In your rocking-chair, by your window dreaming, shall you long, alone. In your rocking-chair, by your window, shall you dream of such happiness as you shall never feel.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Sister Carrie}{\fs20 
\par 2. You\rquote re an expatriate. You\rquote ve lost touch with the soil. You get precious. Fake European standards have ruined you. You drink yourself to death. You become obsessed w
ith sex. You spend all your time talking, not working. You are an expatriate, see? You hang around caf\'e9s.
\par Answer: }{\fs20\lang1030 The }{\b\fs20\lang1030 Sun Also Rises}{\fs20\lang1030 
\par 3. Presently we saw a curious thing \'85 On some upland farm, a plough had been left standing in the field. The sun was sinking just behind it. Magnified across the distance by the horizontal light, it stood out against the sun \'85
 There it was, heroic in size, a picture writing on the sun.}{\fs20 
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 My \'c1ntonia}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 27. Given a poem\rquote s title, recite its first line for 5 points, and name the poet for another 5.
\par 1. The Destruction of Sennacherib
\par ANSWERS: (5 points) }{\b\fs20 The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold}{\fs20 
\par (5 points) by George Gordon, Lord }{\b\fs20 Byron}{\fs20 
\par 2. The Emperor of Ice Cream
\par ANSWERS: (5 points) }{\b\fs20 Call the roller of big cigars}{\fs20 
\par (5 points) by Wallace }{\b\fs20 Stevens}{\fs20 
\par 3. To an Athlete Dying Young
\par ANSWERS: (5 points) }{\b\fs20 The time you won your town the race}{\fs20 
\par (5 points) by A[lfred] E[dward] }{\b\fs20 Housman}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 28. Given an element, recite the full ground-state electron configuration of a neutral atom of that element for 10 points each, all or nothing on each part.
\par 1. Boron
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 1s2, 2s2, 2p1}{\fs20 
\par 2. Sodium
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 1s2, 2s2, 2p6, 3s1}{\fs20 
\par 3. Sulfur
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 1s2, 2s2, 2p6, 3s2, 3p4}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 29. Answer the following questions about music for 10 points each.
\par 1. What term is given to an extended composition for solo instrument (or instruments) and orchestra, typically consisting of 3 movements\emdash allegro, andante, allegro, with possibly a minuet or scherzo thrown in between the 2nd and 3rd movementns?

\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 concerto}{\fs20 
\par 2. What Italian term describes a concerto without soloists?
\par Answer: concerto }{\b\fs20 grosso}{\fs20 \tab (prompt on \ldblquote grand concerto\rdblquote )
\par 3. What 9-letter term denotes a concerto\rquote s characteristic alternation between the soloist and the orchestra in presenting the piece\rquote s musical themes?
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 antiphony}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 30. Identify the following about the disputed election of 1876 for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points each) Name the 4 states from which the 20 disputed electoral votes came.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 Florida, Louisiana, South Carolina, Oregon}{\fs20 
\par 2. (10 points, all or nothing) Identify the composition of the electoral commission in  terms of how many and from which body its 15 members were drawn.
\par Answer: }{\b\fs20 5}{\fs20  from the }{\b\fs20 House}{\fs20  of Representatives, }{\b\fs20 5}{\fs20  from the }{\b\fs20 Senate}{\fs20 , }{\b\fs20 5}{\fs20  from the }{\b\fs20 Supreme Court}{\fs20 
\par }}