{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext15 1AutoList1;}{\s16\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext16 2AutoList1;}{
\s17\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext17 3AutoList1;}{\s18\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext18 4AutoList1;}{\s19\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext19 5AutoList1;}{\s20\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext20 6AutoList1;}{
\s21\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext21 7AutoList1;}{\s22\qj\li-1440\nowidctlpar\adjustright \snext22 8AutoList1;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords6975}{\nofchars39758}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws48825}{\vern89}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\aftnnar\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1 }\pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\b 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Illinois and University of Central Oklahoma (Eric Bell, Carmen Bell, Paul Lindgren, Brian Smith-Templeton, and BEAR)
\par Tossups}{
\par 
\par 1. His early work is in a rather weak Neoclassical style, as seen in 1768\rquote s }{\i Agrippina Landing at Brundisium with the Ashes of Germanicus}{
.  Though an American citizen, he spent almost all his career in England, and, in 1792, he succeeded Sir Joshua Reynolds as President of the Royal Academy.  For 10 points, name this artist who eventually became associa
ted with Romanticism, whose works include }{\i Saul and the Witch of Endor}{, }{\i Death on a Pale Horse}{, and }{\i The Death of General Wolfe.}{
\par Answer:\tab Benjamin }{\b West}{
\par 
\par 2. According to his legend, he felt himself unworthy of the priesthood at the age of 16 and so retired to t
he wilderness as an anchorite.  One day a whirlwind dropped a beautiful princess on the doorstep of his cave.  He reluctantly let her in, but then he succumbed to temptation and seduced her.  Overwhelmed by guilt, he succumbed to temptation again and push
e
d her from a cliff.  In remorse, he crept through the desert with his face to the ground for 16 years until he received a sign of his forgiveness and the princess was found alive and healthy at the base of the cliff.  FTP, name this saint who in less fanc
iful histories is known as one of the greatest fathers of the church and whose appellation literally means \ldblquote golden mouth.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: John }{\b Chrysostom}{
\par 
\par 3. She ran away from home when she was 12 and was taken in by Doc, the man she would later marry.  Eventually, she ran away to L.A. and then to New York, though she split with O.J. Berman after skipping her tryout for \ldblquote The Story of Dr. Wassail.
\rdblquote   She remains an associate of Berman\rquote s though, constantly trying to interest him in the work of the writer who lives downstairs, the nameless narrator whom she always calls \ldblquote Fred,\rdblquote 
 after her brother, until her brother is killed in the war.  For 10 points\emdash name this character whose real name is Lulamae Barnes, the central character of Truman Capote\rquote s Breakfast at Tiffany\rquote s.
\par Answer:\tab Holly }{\b Golightly}{  (accept Lulamae }{\b Barnes}{ on early buzz)
\par 
\par 4. It is highly unlikely that one would find this amino acid in either an alpha helix or beta sheet; rather it is most often found in a beta turn. A member of the alpha ketoglutarate family, it
 is derived from glutamate via a series of reactions including an oxidation, reduction, followed by an NADPH dependent reduction of the pyrroline double bond. It, along with its 4-hydroxy version, composes some 30% of collagen. FTP name this amino acid wh
o has the fourth smallest molecular weight and is unique because it is the only one whose R group is bonded to the amino group.
\par Answer: }{\b proline}{
\par 
\par 5. He studied at the London School of Economics before returning to his homeland and founding the Convention People\rquote s Party in 1949 with the slogan \ldblquote self government now.\rdblquote 
 He was imprisoned a year later but was elected to parliament while still in jail. He was released a year later and became virtual Prime Minister with the title \ldblquote Leader of Business in the Assembly.\rdblquote 
 He was confirmed in office in 1956 but his regime was overthrown in 1966. FTP, name this leader, a promoter of Pan-African feeling and the first Prime Minister of Ghana.
\par Answer: Kwame }{\b Nkrumah}{
\par 
\par 6. Her husband George is an amiable bore absorbed in his research into \ldblquote The Domestic Industries of Brabant in the Middle Ages,\rdblquote  in marked contrast to her first suitor Eilert, who claims his research is into forces that will \ldblquote 
shape our world.\rdblquote  Though she tries to destroy Eilert\rquote s work, it is preserved, and she fears that her role in Eilert\rquote 
s suicide will be discovered and there will be a scandal.  Eventually, she commits suicide rather than become the mistress of Judge Brack, who attempts to blackmail her with his knowledge of events.  For 10 points, name this title ch
aracter of an Henrik Ibsen play.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Hedda Gabler}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{7. He enlisted the help of Apollo and Poseidon to build a wall around his city, and when he refused to pay the gods, they sent a sea monster after him. He had Heracles kill the monster in return for hi
s daughter Hesione, but he again reneged on his word and was slain.  FTP identify this Trojan king who was succeeded by Priam.
\par Answer: }{\b Laomedon}{
\par 
\par 8. The first edition was published in 1771 with supplements following in 1783 and 1784.  Pierre Mechain may hav
e collaborated on the project, and the last half dozen entries were added only in the twentieth century.  The nature of entry 102 is still the subject of controversy.  Number 97 is the Owl; number 8, the Lagoon; number 57, the Ring; and number 20, the Tri
ffid.  FTP identify this catalog of nebulae, galaxies, and star clusters whose most famous members include the Andromeda Galaxy (number 31), the Orion Nebula (number 42), and the Crab Nebula (number 1).
\par Answer: }{\b Messier}{ Catalog
\par 
\par 9. In 1935 Benjamin Britten w
rote incidental music to the play, a few centuries after Henry Purcell set the Masque of Cupid and Bacchus.  Apemantus is a churlish philosopher; Ventidius is one of the false friends; Sempronius, Lucullus, and Lucius are flattering lords; and Flavius is 
t
he "one honest man."  The title character is a misanthrope because his friends flattered and sponged on him in prosperity but abandoned him in poverty, while later he finds gold and suddenly becomes attractive again to his old friends again. FTP identify 
this 1606 play by William Shakespeare.
\par Answer: }{\b Timon of Athens}{
\par 
\par 10. The son of a miner, he joined the German Communist Party in 1929 and was imprisoned between 1935 and 1945. After WWII, he was elected to the Volkskammer in 1949 and in 1958 he became a full
 member of the SED politburo and secretariat. He oversaw the building of the Berlin Wall in 1961 and became East Germany\rquote s effective leader upon Walter Ulbricht\rquote 
s death in 1973. FTP, name this German politician who was forced out of power in 1989 and replaced by Egon Krenz.
\par Answer: Erich }{\b Honecker}{
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {11. It occurs with a rate of about 50 arcseconds per year and has a period of about 26,000 years.  To account for the effect astronomical coordinates are given in terms of the epoch.  It is caused by the torque of
 the Sun and Moon on the Earth's rotational bulge, which is tilted with respect to the orbital plane.  As a result, Vega will be the Pole Star in another 13,000 years.  FTP name this effect discovered by Hipparchus of Rhodes
\par Answer: }{\b precession}{ of the }{\b equinoxes}{ or equivalents (prompt on precession)
\par 
\par 12. The first man to talk following this character\rquote s death is Reginald Fitz Urse who tries to explain his actions and begs the audience not to pass judgment before his partners have had a chance to speak. William
 de Traci speaks next and says that he took no joy in his action and he did it for the good of his country. Hugh de Morville speaks third and declares that this character was causing social upheaval that threatened to tear the country apart. The last spea
ker, Richard Brito, insists that he and his colleagues were in fact not ultimately responsible for this man\rquote s death. FTP, name the characters whose death these men were trying to explain in a 1935 play by T.S. Eliot.
\par Answer: St. Thomas A }{\b Becket}{
\par 
\par 13. The mission in this city, San Xavier del Bac, opened in 1700 and the town was permanently settled in 1776.  Its name comes from a Papago word meaning \ldblquote village of the dark spring at the foot of the mountain,\rdblquote 
 and it is ringed in by four different mountain ranges: 
Rincon, Santa Catalina, Santa Rita, and the namesake range.  For 10 points, name this city acquired by the U.S. in the Gadsden purchase, currently the largest city in the former Gadsden territory, which is home to Davis-Mothan Air Force Base, the Kitts Pe
ak Observatory, and the Insight.Com Bowl at the University of Arizona stadium?
\par Answer: }{\b Tucson}{, AZ}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{14. Although there is no loss or gain of genetic associated with these, there is almost certainly a positive or negative position effect on the phenotype. The
y have a great effect on recombination because during crossover in meiosis, one chromosome will be forced to make a loop. This will result in gametes that will not have a full set of genes. Along with translocations, they are the most important physical a
lterations of chromosomes. FTP name this condition in which the orientation of a portion of a chromosome is reversed. 
\par Answer: chromosomal }{\b inversion}{
\par 
\par 15. This agreement, paired with another agreement in the following year, made the 49}{\super th}{ parallel that bounda
ry between the U.S. and Canada. It also established joint control of the Oregon Territory for ten years and the dispute of fisheries in Newfoundland and Labrador was settled amicably. But the most important provision by far was the limitation of each coun
try to one 100 ton vessel armed with only a single 18 pounder on Lakes Champlain and Ontario as well as two on all the other Great Lakes. FTP, name this 1817 agreement between Britain and the U.S. that demilitarized the Great Lakes.
\par Answer: }{\b Rush-Bagot}{
\par 
\par 16. Enrico Caruso called his favorite aria this work\rquote s \ldblquote Vesti la giubba,\rdblquote  sung at the end of act one and usually rendered in English as \ldblquote On with the play.\rdblquote 
  Silvio proves unable to help his beloved Nedda, who is stabbed by her jealous husband, ironically, whil
e performing the commedia del arte scene between Harlequin and Columbine.  For 10 points, name this opera, the story of Canio, which is the only work most people recognize by Ruggerio Leoncavallo.
\par Answer:\tab I }{\b Pagliacci}{
\par 
\par 17. This battle was fought primarily between the U.S. Tenth Army under Simon Buckner and the Japanese 32}{\super nd}{
 Army under Ushijima Mitsuru.  Both commanders were killed during the battle, and because it was fought in one of the more densely populated areas of the Pacific islands, nearly 100,000 ci
vilians died during the battle, losses nearly equaling those of the Japanese.  For 10 points, name this April 1-June 21, 1945 battle, the last major Pacific island battle of World War II.
\par Answer:\tab Battle of }{\b Okinawa}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{18. This man proposed that every positive integer is a sum of at most three triangular numbers, four square numbers, and, in general, n n\_
polygonal numbers.  He also noted that the area of a rational right triangle cannot be a square number.  His primes are of the form 2\_to\_the\_2\_to\_the\_n plus 1 for integer n, and his \ldblquote little theorem\rdblquote 
 states that if p is a prime number and q is a natural number, q\_to\_the\_p is q mod p.  FTP identify the French mathematician best known for a marginal notation in his copy of Diophantus' }{\i Arithmetica}{.
\par Answer: Pierre de }{\b Fermat}{
\par }{\ul 
\par }{19. A student of both theology and law at Paris and Bologna, he became a cardinal in 1190.  His main interests were heresy and crusade, and his declaration of the church as a state led him to declare that heresy was a crime against the state and w
as to be punished as such.  The Fourth Lateran Council, which he convened in 1215, dealt with over 70 decrees he had written from his election as pope in 1198.  For 10 points--name this pope, born Lothair of Segni and widely considered the most earthly an
d powerful of the popes of the Middle Ages.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Innocent III}{  (accept Lothair of Segni before it is read)
\par 
\par 20. An avid chess player and fan of the Times chess column, his table is always reserved for him at the Chestnut Tree Caf\'e9 with his chessboard in 
place and the paper already open to the column.  Though he works occasionally in a sub-basement for a sub-committee of a sub-committee, he is not sure exactly what he does.  This is the later life of, for 10 points, what former employee in the Records Dep
artment of the Ministry of Truth, lover of Julia, and central character of George Orwell\rquote s }{\i 1984}{?
\par Answer:\tab Winston }{\b Smith}{ 
\par 
\par 21. After the first play through, the first violinist advised Schubert that the composition was "nothing at all... stick to your lieder.
"  Sharing its name with an Ariel Dorfman play, all of the four movements are in the minor mode, from the opening descending motif to variations upon a theme taken from one of Schubert's songs which lends its name to the piece. FTP identify this 1824 stri
ng quartet, which shares its name with a painting by Hans Baldung Grien showing a young woman looking in a mirror with a ghastly figure behind her.
\par Answer: }{\b Death and the Maiden}{ or }{\b String Quartet in D Minor}{ or }{\b D810}{
\par 
\par 22. North Carolina physician Dr. Thomas Burke is considered the founding spirit behind it, as it was his \ldblquote rope of iron\rdblquote 
 speech that led to its complete reconstruction according to his vision.  Burke wrote its infamous Article II, handicapping it severely by limiting its scope to those abilities st
rictly given to it in Articles VI, VII, and IX.  For 10 points, name this document, approved in 1781 nearly four years after its proposal as a constitutional framework for the United States.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Articles of Confederation}{
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {23. Perhaps the product of one
 of his mother Faustina's frequent affairs with the gladiators, he considered himself a member of the gladiators' corps and frequently took part in the circus as a sword-man.  Ironically born on the same day as Caligula, he shared Caligula's interests and
 
brutal sadism, and like Caligula, may have killed his father with poison.  Unlike the renowned charity of his father, he milked the Empire for all it was worth and is generally considered one of the worst Roman emperors.  For 10 points--name this man who 
became Emperor in AD 180 and must have been a true test of the stoicism of his father, Marcus Aurelius.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Commodus}{
\par 
\par 24. Set in the house of the wealthy aristocrat Cephalus, it begins as a discussion of the benefits of wealth.  Though the gruff Sophist
 Thrasymachus attempts to pin down Socrates and force him to abandon his relentless question-and-Answer method, Thrasymachus is eventually forced to defend his belief that \ldblquote might is right, and justice is the interest of the stronger.\rdblquote 
  For 10 points\emdash name this Platonic dialogue that introduces the concept of the philosopher-king and contains the Allegory of the Cave.
\par Answer:\tab The }{\b Republic}{\ul 
\par }{
\par 25. She first gained attention by solving a problem that her Cornell advisor, Lowell Randolph, had been working on for mo
st of his career.  Randolph found the situation intolerable and she soon departed for the University of Missouri and then the Cold Spring Harbor Lab in New York, where she remained for the rest of her life.  Despite James Watson's declaration that she was
 
one of the three most important people in genetics, her work was not generally understood in its time, and she won her Nobel Prize more than 30 years after publishing her discovery.  For 10 points--name this scientist whose carefully observations of color
ation in maize kernels were explained by her discovery of genetic crossover.
\par Answer:\tab Barbara }{\b McClintock}{\ul 
\par }{
\par 26. This composer held a series of odd jobs in the theater and gave private lessons to support himself, nearly starving until he won the Prix de Rome in
 1830.  He was later hired to teach music at the Paris Conservatory, ironic because he himself had been denied admission to the Conservatory because of his late start as a musician. For 10 points\emdash 
name this French composer of Les Troyens, Roman Carnival, Beatrice and Benedict, and Harold in Italy.
\par Answer:\tab Hector }{\b Berlioz}{
\par 
\par 27. He delivered a set of patriotic lectures from 1807-1808 in order to drum up a sense of nationalism in resistance to Napoleon. His metaphysical \ldblquote Ego\rdblquote  would later be used transformed into the Nazi ideal of \ldblquote Herrenvolk.
\rdblquote  A disciple of Kant, he developed the theory of \ldblquote Ego\rdblquote  which was a subjective reality. It would then interact in the external world or \ldblquote non-Ego.\rdblquote  FTP, name this German philosopher whose works include }{\i 
The Science of Knowledge}{ and }{\i The Science of Ethics.}{
\par Answer: Johann Gottlieb }{\b Fichte}{
\par 
\par 28. This short story revolves around two hitmen sent out to kill an ex-boxer in small town America. While searching for the boxer, Andreson, they announce at a local restaurant their intentions in h
opes of finding out where he lives. One patron of the restaurant, Nick, runs off to warn Andreson but is startled that Andreson is willing to accept his fate. This story appeared in print in 1927 in the collection }{\i Men Without Women}{
. For ten points, name this short story by Ernest Hemingway in which Nick Adams first appears.  (no\'85)
\par Answer: The }{\b Killers}{
\par 
\par 29. This chemical physicist produced a theory of the change in specific heat with temperature, a method for X-ray diffraction analysis using powdered crystals
, and the concept of permanent molecular dipole moments. He was also able to use his moments to show that water was bent and benzene was flat. In 1923 he and Huckel devised a theory of electrolytes that bear their names. FTP name this Dutch-American physi
cist after whom the unit of electric dipole moment is named.
\par Answer: Peter }{\b Debye}{
\par 
\par 30. This poem, which first appeared in }{\i Poetry}{ magazine in 1913, uses a banjo, a flute, tambourines, and a bass drum which plays throughout most of the poem. It was meant to be sung to the tune of \ldblquote The Blood of the Lamb.\rdblquote 
 Written to honor the passing of a social activist, it opens with the lines \ldblquote BLANK led boldly with his big bass drum-The Saints smiled gravely and said: \ldblquote He\rquote s Come.\rdblquote / Walking lepers followed, rank on rank/ Lurch
ing bravos from the ditches dank.\rdblquote  FTP, name this poem that was written by Vachel Lindsay.
\par Answer: }{\b General William Booth Enters Into Heaven}{
\par 
\par 31. Born in Shandong, his ethical system was based on the belief that human beings were innately good but required 
the proper social surroundings to develop moral growth. He traveled extensively looking for a ruler who would put his system into practical use but was unsuccessful. His conversations with these rulers were compiled in a sayings book by his students after
 his death in a book named for him. FTP, name this philosopher who espoused ren, yi, li, and zhi who worked to develop Confucian ideas.
\par Answer: }{\b Mencius}{ or }{\b Mengzi}{ or }{\b Meng-tzu}{
\par 
\par 32. He was 26 years old when he published }{\i On the Conservation of Force}{ in 1847 whose ideas were more precise than Mayer\rquote s and more wide-ranging than Joule\rquote 
s. In 1850 he developed an ophthalmoscope for viewing the human retina. He also argued that the cochlea resonates at different frequencies and analyses complex sounds. Later in life he gave up physiology for medicine and became interested in Maxwell
\rquote s work on electromagnetic radiation. His pupils included Hertz, Boltzmann, and Michelson. FTP name this German physicist and physiologist, the namesake of a kind of free energy.
\par Answer: Hermann von }{\b Helmholtz}{
\par 
\par 33. He was quoted as saying, \ldblquote There are two rebellions in progress; the Secessionist Rebellion and the Abolitionist Rebellion. I am against both.\rdblquote 
 In 1863, after he made a speech urging for an end to the war, he was thrown in jail. He w
as released and banished to the Confederacy but moved to Canada instead. From there he ran for governor of Ohio unsuccessfully. For ten points, name this politician who moved back to the U.S. to campaign against Lincoln, and who was the head of the so-cal
led Peace Democrats.
\par Answer: Clement L. }{\b Vallandigham}{
\par 
\par 34. In the Purgatorio, it is through the agency of this text that Statius is redeemed though it is more likely to have been an allusion to an expected child of Marc Antony and Octavia or even a sycophant
ic commentary about Augustus rather than a prophecy of the birth of Christ as was believed during the late Roman Empire and the Middle Ages.  It includes the observation that
\par the iron age shall cease and the golden race arise.  FTP identify this poem by Virgil.
\par Answer: }{\b Fourth Eclogue}{ or }{\b Fourth Bucolic}{
\par 
\par 35. Even though this phylum develops as a protostome, it still shows radial cleavage and coelom development follows the pattern seen in deuterostomes. The genus }{\i Lingula}{ under this phylum is likely the oldest 
surviving genus of animals. They contain a lophophore which is a ridge around their mouth; this trait relates them to phyla Phoronida and Ectoprocta. They resemble bivalve molluscs but their shells develop on the dorsal and ventral surfaces rather than on
 the left and right surfaces of bivalves. FTP name this phylum that dominated marine life in the Mesozoic and Paleozoic eras that contains lamp shells.
\par Answer: }{\b brachiopoda}{
\par 
\par 36. The film inspired Sam Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch.  The black\_and\_white adventure
 is set in Las Piedras, a Latin American oil town controlled by the Southern Oil Company.  Yves Montand, Charles Vanel, Folco Lulli, and Peter van Eyck star as four European drifters hired to transport two truckloads of liquid nitroglycerin 300 miles.  Th
e film's most famous sequence requires the drivers to turn around on a rickety, half\_finished timber platform high above a mountain range.  FTP identify this 1953 work directed by Henri\_Georges Clouzot.
\par Answer: Le}{\b  Salaire de la peur}{ or The }{\b Wages of Fear}{
\par 
\par 37
. He entered the forces in 1893, serving on the Norht-West frontier, in South Africa, and with the West African Frontier Force. He went on to become Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police Force between 1931 and 1935 where he established the Police Colleg
e at Hendon. It was in another service that he gained fame. He helped to found the RAF in 1918 and was Chief of the Air Staff between 1919 and 1929. FTP, name this man who was appointed Marshal of the RAF in 1927.
\par Answer: Hugh Montague }{\b Trenchard}{
\par 
\par 38. Two an
swers are required.  He fell in love with her on first sight following a chance meeting when they were both nine.  Nine years later, they met again, and she spoke a pleasant word of greeting to him.  He observed her at church, and when next they met, she 
snubbed him.  She ended up marrying a nobleman named Simone de Bardi while he married Gemma Donati.  His poems about her appear in La Vita Nuova.  FTP identify this pair, one of whom guides the other through Paradiso.
\par Answer: }{\b Dante}{ Alighieri and }{\b Beatrice}{ Portinari
\par 
\par 39. It was built at the Campo San Fantin based on the architect Gian Antonio Selva's design and opened on May 16, 1792 with Giovanni Pasiello's I Giochi di Agrigento.  Operas that received their premieres in this house include Einstein on the Beac
h, The Rake's Progress, The Turn of the Screw, Rigoletto, and La Traviata.  On January 29, 1996, the building burned down and will surely arise again like the phoenix it is.  FTP identify the Venice opera house.
\par Answer: La }{\b Fenice}{
\par 
\par 40. \ldblquote Fear Death? To feel the fog in my throat/ The mist in my face,/ When the snows begin and the blasts denote/ I am nearing the place...\rdblquote  These lines begin a poem written in 1864 which was written soon after its author\rquote s wife
\rquote s death. The poem expresses a courageous outlook upon death as is evidenced in lines 13-16: \ldblquote I was a fighter, so-one fight more,/ The best and the last!/ I would hate that Death bandaged my eyes, and forebore,/ And bade me creep past...
\rdblquote  FTP name this poem written by Robert Browning.
\par Answer: }{\b Prospice}{
\par 
\par 41. Ge
offrey of Monmouth writes this word in Old Norse rather than in Latin in his History of the Kings of Britain.  When the British Christian king Vortigern invited Hengist, pagan king of the Jutes, and his daughter Renwein to visit, Renwein offered him wine 
and greeted Vortigern with this word, which meant \ldblquote be in good health.\rdblquote   Vortigern\rquote s advisors explained the meaning of this word and suggested that he respond with \ldblquote drincheil.\rdblquote 
  Thereupon Satan crept into the heart of Vortigern and he married the pagan princess. FTP, name this word which today refers to a spiced alcoholic drink or the activity of visiting one\rquote ss neighbors to acquire that drink, usually at Christmastime.

\par Answer: }{\b Wassail}{
\par 
\par 42. The pre\_eminent creators of this type of satiric poetry were Hugh Pri
mas of Orleans and the anonymous writer known only as the Archpoet.  This type of verse can be found in the Carmina Burana.  It celebrated drunkenness and gambling while mocking human nature and the religious and political institutions of the 12th century
.  It was ultimately named for a figure who had once been closely associated with Satan but by the 12th century was regarded more as an affable poet\_beggar.  FTP, name this type of satiric verse, or, if you^\'d2
re really hard up for points, the Philistine giant for which such verse was named.
\par Answer: }{\b Golliardic}{ verse or }{\b Goliath}{ or }{\b Golias}{
\par 
\par 43. The French army reached a point about 2 \'bd miles from Alessandria. Rather than wait to be attacked, General Michael von Melas lashed out at the French army. Taking the Fren
ch by surprise, the attacking army inflicted heavy casualties and forced a hasty retreat. Von Melas then turned command over to a subordinate and retired to Alessandria. However, the slow pursuit allowed the French to regroup and they counterattacked with
 ferocity and routed the attacking army. FTP, name this 1800 battle between the forces of Napoleon and the Austrians.
\par Answer: }{\b Marengo}{
\par \page }{\b 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Illinois and University of Central Oklahoma (Eric Bell, Carmen Bell, Paul Lindgren, Brian Smith-Templeton, and BEAR)
\par Bonuses}{
\par 
\par 1. Identify this dude, 30-20-10.
\par 30. The head of a monastery at Segovia for 22 years, he was repeatedly offered higher ecclesiastical positions but declined them all.  His contemporary Sebastian de Olmedo called him "the light of Spain."
\par 20. The confessor of Isabella since 1478, he is said to have ended the practice of allowing Jews to pay taxes to avoid conversion with the line, "Judas Iscariot sold Christ for 30 pieces of silver.  Your majesty is about to sell him for 30,000 ducats."

\par 10. He was named the head of the Spanish Inquisition in 1483.
\par Answer:\tab Tomas de }{\b Torquemada}{
\par 
\par 2. Answer the following about transfinite numbers FTP each.
\par 1.  It is a type of number defined in such a way that any method of counting sets using it gives the same result.
\par Answer: }{\b cardinal}{ number
\par 2.  This is the cardinality of the set of integers.
\par Answer: }{\b aleph null}{ or }{\b aleph naught}{ or }{\b aleph zero}{
\par 3.  Cantor posited that there is no infinite set with a cardinality between that of the infinite set of integers and the infinite set of real numbers. What name is given to this postulate?
\par Answer: }{\b Continuum}{ Hypothesis
\par 
\par 3. Many times literary figures double as librettists. Identify these authors form librettos for ten points each or from a more famous work for five.
\par 1.  10. The libretto to Britten\rquote s }{\i Paul Bunyan}{.
\par       5. Other works include }{\i For the Time Being}{, and }{\i The Ascent of F6}{.
\par Answer: W. H. }{\b Auden}{
\par 2.  10. The libretto to Britten\rquote s }{\i Billy Budd}{ with Eric Crozier.
\par        5. Other works include }{\i The Longest Journey}{, and }{\i Maurice}{.
\par Answer: E. M. }{\b Forster}{
\par 3.  10: The libretto to Cole Porter\rquote s }{\i Anything Goes}{ with Guy Bolton.
\par        5: Other works include }{\i Leave it to Psmith}{, and }{\i The Code of the Woosters}{.
\par Answer: P. G. }{\b Wodehouse}{
\par 
\par 4. Identify these sectional leaders of the first half of the nineteenth century FTP each.
\par 1. In the Senate election of 1821, this man unseated DeWitt Clinton.
\par Answer: Martin }{\b Van Buren}{
\par 2. This western leader, a veteran of the War of 1812, earned the nickname \ldblquote Old Bullion\rdblquote  for his staunch advocacy of hard currency. He served as a Missouri senator for 30 years.
\par Answer: Thomas Hart }{\b Benton}{
\par 3. This southerner served as Monroe\rquote s secretary of the treasury and was elected a U.S. senator in 1807. He was appointed Minister to France in 1816 and was a democratic 
presidential candidate in 1824. An 1820 law nicknamed for him limited the term of minor federal employees to four years
\par Answer: William }{\b Crawford}{
\par 
\par 5. Answer these questions about Abraham from the book of Genesis for the stated number of points.
\par 5. Abraham refused to divide the spoils of war with Bela, the king of this city, after Abraham rescued Lot from Bela\rquote s enemies.
\par Answer: }{\b Sodom}{
\par 10. Just before rejecting the king of Sodom\rquote s offer, Abraham was blessed by this priest and king of Salem.
\par Answer: }{\b Melchizedek}{
\par 15. Abraham was sent into this land to sacrifice Isaac on a mountain, which the Jewish historian Josephus regarded as the same place where Solomon later built his temple.
\par Answer: }{\b Moriah}{
\par 
\par 6. Name the sculpture by Gian\_Lorenzo Bernini FTP each.
\par 1. Commissioned by Cardinal Federico Cornaro at the Church of Santa Maria della Vittoria, it depicts a saint's orgasmic bliss in the presence of an angel as seven cardinals and a Doge look on.
\par Answer: }{\b Ecstasy of St. Theresa}{ of Avila (1647\_1652)
\par 2. In this sculpture, a god catches up to the nymph he is pursuing just as she starts changing into a tree.
\par Answer: }{\b Apollo and Daphne}{ (1622\_1625)
\par 3. The tomb of this pope within St. Peter's was sculpted by Bernini between 1672 and 1678.  Born Fabio Chigi, his pontificate was shadowed by continual differences with Cardinal Mazarin.
\par Answer: }{\b Alexander VII}{
\par 
\par 7. Identify these types of mixtures FTPE.
\par 1. This kind of mixture contains equal amounts of a pair of enantiomers; it will not rotate polarized light.
\par Answer: }{\b racemic}{
\par 2. This is a mixture of two liquids that boils at a constant composition.
\par Answer: }{\b azeotrope}{
\par 3. This is a solid solution consisting of two or more substances that has the lowest freezing point of any possible mixture of the components.
\par Answer: }{\b eutectic}{ mixture
\par 
\par 8. Name these characters from Shakespeare\rquote s }{\i King Lear}{, for 10 points each:
\par 1. This illegitimate son of Gloucester plots to seize his father\rquote s estate, and is responsible for Cornwall\rquote s blinding of his father.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Edmund}{
\par 2. The legitimate son of Gloucester, he ends up killing Edmund in single combat.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Edgar}{
\par 3. The husband of Goneril, he repents the cruelty of Lear\rquote s daughters and Edmund, and its left as ruler at the end of the play.
\par Answer:\tab Duke of }{\b Albany}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{9. Identify the psychologist authors of the following for ten points each:
\par 1.}{\i Walden Two}{
\par Answer:\tab Burrhus Frederic }{\b Skinner}{
\par 2. }{\i Obedience to Authority}{
\par Answer: Stanley }{\b Milgram}{
\par 3.}{\i Young Man Luther}{
\par Answer:\tab Erik }{\b Erikson}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{10. Given a U.S. president, name his Secretary of State FTPE.
\par 1. Millard Fillmore\rquote s from 1852-1853
\par Answer: Edward }{\b Everett}{
\par 2. Chester Arthur
\par Answer: }{\b R}{obert T. }{\b Lincoln}{
\par 3. Jimmy Carter from 1980-1981.
\par Answer: Edmund S. }{\b Muskie}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{11. Name the directors of these Palme d\rquote Or winning films from Cannes for 10 points each:
\par 1. }{\i Blow-Up}{
\par Answer:\tab Michelangelo }{\b Antonioni}{
\par 2. }{\i La Dolce Vita}{
\par Answer:\tab Federico }{\b Fellini}{
\par 3. }{\i M*A*S*H}{
\par Answer:\tab Robert }{\b Altman}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{12. Name the Beethoven work FTP each.
\par 1.  In response to an 1819 invitation to write variations upon a waltz theme, Beethoven responded with these thirty\_three variations.
\par Answer: }{\b Diabelli}{ Variations or }{\b Op.}{ }{\b 120}{
\par 2.  The Sanctus and Benedictus are set to continuous music, but they are separated by the Praeludium.  A high solo violin represents the divine presence.
\par Answer: }{\b Missa Solemnis}{ or }{\b Mass in D}{ Major or }{\b Op. 123}{
\par 3.  The common title is a misnomer.  The first section opens with a bugle call and the tune "Rule, Brittania."  The second part is based on the British anthem.
\par Answer: }{\b Battle Symphony}{ or }{\b Wellington's Victory}{ or The }{\b Battle of Vienna}{ or }{\b Op. 91}{
\par }{\ul 
\par }{13. 30-20-10.  Name the author.
\par 30. In 1969, his partner Assia Gutmann took her own life and that of their daughter; his own mother died shortly thereafter, prompting a period of unsteady moving between England and Ireland until his remarriage in 1970.
\par 20. His most famous collections include his children\rquote s works }{\i How the Whale Became}{ and}{\i  Nessie the Mannerless Monster}{, as well as}{\i  Lupercal }{and }{\i The Hawk in the Rain}{.
\par 10. Gutmann was the second woman in his life to commit suicide; Sylvia Plath, the first wife of this recently deceased English poet laureate, did so in 1963.
\par Answer: Ted }{\b Hughes}{
\par 
\par 14. Identify these mathematical statements for 10 points apiece:
\par 1. For any two real numbers x and y, x is either greater than y, less than y, or equal to y.
\par Answer:\tab law of }{\b trichotomy}{ or }{\b trichotomy}{ property
\par 2. For any integer n greater than 3, there is always a prime number between n and 2n-2.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Bertrand}{\rquote s postulate
\par 3. Proposed in a letter to Euler, it states that every even integer greater than 2 is the sum of two primes.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Goldbach}{\rquote s conjecture}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{15. Identify these figures from Babylonian mythology, none of which is Gilgamesh, for the stated number of points:
\par 5. Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman are rumored to have once worshipped this fertility goddess and sanctifier of temple prostitution, but they should have stopped that about 1982.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Ishtar}{
\par 10. He slew the evil dragon Tiamat and created the world from its body.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Marduk}{
\par 15. This sun-god was the dispenser of light and justice to the world. Gilgamesh\rquote s mother\emdash well, we had to work him in somehow\emdash prays to this god for his safety.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Shamash}{\ul 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {16. In honor of Black History Month, identify the following famous African-Americans for 10 points each.
\par 1.In 1983, he became the first African-American in space when he rode aboard the }{\i Challenger}{.
\par Answer:\tab Guy }{\b Bluford}{
\par 2. A Harvard Ph.D., he began Negro History Week in 1926, which in 1976 became Black History Month.
\par Answer:\tab Dr. Carter }{\b Woodson}{
\par 3. She was the first African-American woman to win a Pulitzer Prize, doing so in 1950 for }{\i Annie Allen}{.
\par Answer:\tab Gwendolyn }{\b Brooks}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{17. Identify these geographic features of Germany FTPE.
\par 1. This waterway was built from 1887-1895. 61 miles long, it connects the North Sea with the Baltic Sea. Built to facilitate the German fleet, it was widened and deepened between 1905 and 1914.
\par Answer: }{\b Kiel}{ Canal
\par 2. This river rises in the Vosges Mountains of northeast France and flows 340 miles north then northeast to the Rhine River in western Germany. The German valley of the river is noted for its old castles and cele
brated vineyards. The town of Trier lies along its banks.
\par Answer: }{\b Mosel}{ River
\par 3. Also called Lake Constance, this Alpine lake borders southern Germany, northern Switzerland, and western Austria.
\par Answer: }{\b Bodensee}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{18. Name these short stories from James Joyce\rquote s \-}{\i Dubliners}{ FTP each.
\par 1. The last and most famous of the stories, exploring the distance between Gabriel Conroy and his wife.
\par Answer:\tab The }{\b Dead}{
\par 2.  The first story, centering on the reaction of a young boy to the death of a mad priest.
\par Answer:\tab The }{\b Sisters}{
\par 3.  The story of small-town political hacks after the death of Parnell, arguing over the welcome of King Edward to Ireland.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Ivy Day in the Committee Room}{\ul 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {19. Answer these questions about the heart and circulatory systems FTP each.
\par 1. This is the name given to a total blockage of a blood vessel.
\par Answer: }{\b occlusion}{
\par 2. Metabolism of the heart and blood flow measurements can be accomplished by using a PET Scan. What does the acronym PET stand for?
\par Answer: }{\b positron emission tomography}{
\par 3. This congenital heart disease is characterized by abnormally developed tricuspid valve leaflets.
\par Answer: }{\b Ebstein}{\rquote s Anomaly}{\ul 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {20. Answer the following questions about the battle of Breitenfeld for the stated number of points.
\par 5. This Field Marshal led the Catholic forces at the battle of Breitenfeld.
\par Answer: Johann Tserklaes Count von }{\b Tilly}{
\par 5. This Swede commanded the Protestant forces.
\par Answer: }{\b Gustavus II}{ Adolf or }{\b Gustavus Adolphus}{
\par 10. He was the second-in-command of the Catholic forces. His cavalry struck the Protestant right flank but was beaten back. His rear-guard action prevented the rout from becoming worse upon the Catholic retreat. 
\par Answer: Count Gottfried zu }{\b Pappenheim}{
\par 10. This man, the elector of Saxony, joined forces with Gustavus to fight at Breitenfeld.
\par Answer: }{\b John George I}{
\par 
\par 21. Answer these questions about Truman Capote\rquote s }{\i In Cold Blood}{ FTP each.
\par 1. Give the last name of the Kansas family, whose murder forms the central point of the story.
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Clutter}{
\par 2. Name }{\b either}{ of the two men convicted and hanged for the murder of the Clutter family.
\par Answer:\tab Richard Eugene }{\b Hickock}{ or Perry Edward }{\b Smith}{
\par 3. The novel is set in what hometown of the Clutters, near Garden City?
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Holcomb}{
\par 
\par 22. Name the authors of the following aviary works FTP each.
\par 1. }{\i The Painted Bird}{
\par Answer:\tab  Jerzy Nikodem }{\b Kosinski}{
\par 2. }{\i The Wings of the Dove}{
\par Answer:\tab Henry }{\b James}{
\par 3. }{\i Penguin Island}{
\par Answer:\tab Anatole }{\b France}{
\par 
\par 23. Identify the rivers on which these cities are located for 10 points each:
\par 1.Waco, TX
\par Answer: }{\b Brazos}{ River
\par 2. Bismarck, ND
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Missouri}{ River
\par 3. Denver, CO\tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b South Platte}{ River
\par 
\par 24. Name the constellations with contain the following stars for 10 points apiece:
\par 1. Aldebaran
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Taurus}{
\par 2. Arcturus
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Bootes}{
\par 3. Algol
\par Answer:\tab }{\b Perseus}{
\par 
\par 25. Name these American muckrakers who were not Upton Sinclair for 10 points each:
\par 1. She wrote "The History of the Standard Oil Company."
\par Answer:\tab \tab Ida M. }{\ul Tarbell}{
\par 2. He explored child poverty in }{\ul How the Other Half Lives}{.
\par Answer:\tab \tab Jacob }{\ul Riis}{
\par 3. Author of "Upbuilders" and "The Shame of the Cities."
\par Answer:\tab \tab Lincoln }{\ul Steffens}{
\par 
\par 26. Identify the following Gilbert and Sullivan operettas from the subtitle for 10 points, from an additional description for 5 points.
\par 1.\tab (10 points)  The Lass that Loved a Sailor
\par (5 points)  Ralph Rackstraw and his true love Josephine are eventually united, despite the interference of Dick Deadeye.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab }{\ul H.M.S. Pinafore
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {2.\tab (10 points)\tab The Town of Titipu
\par (5 points)  Characters include Nanki-Poo, Yum-Yum, and, of course, the Grand Pooh-Bah, the Lord High Everything Else
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab The }{\ul Mikado}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3.\tab (10 points) After a public outcry because of its connotations of the word \ldblquote bloody,\rdblquote  Gilbert almost subtitled this work \ldblquote Or, Not So Good as The Mikado.\rdblquote 
  Ultimately, he ended up with \ldblquote The Witch\rquote s Curse.\rdblquote 
\par (5 points) It tells of Robin Oakapple and his attempt to escape the family curse that the head of his family will commit one crime each day.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab }{\ul Ruddigore}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {
\par 27. His most famous work was almost never published because a fellow author\rquote s servant mistook it for kindling and lit the fireplace with it, prompting the author to declare that he has \ldblquote nearly killed himself accomplishing zero.\rdblquote 

\par 1.\tab Name the author of the flammable treatise, the historian/philosopher/author of }{\i Sartor Resartus}{.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab Thomas }{\ul Carlyle
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {2.\tab Carlyle\rquote s flammable work, finally published in 1837, was the first volume of his famous history of which 18}{\super th}{ century event?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab The }{\ul French Revolution}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3.\tab The servant with the new ideas about book-burning assisted in the house of what author of }{\ul On Liberty}{?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab }{\ul J}{ohn Stuart }{\ul Mill}{\tab (prompt for:  Mill)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\ul 
\par }{28. Name the founders of the following religious sects for 10 points each:
\par 1.\tab International Church of the Four-Square Gospel
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab Aimee Semple }{\ul McPherson}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {2.\tab Jehovah\rquote s Witnesses
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {Answer:\tab \tab Charles Taze }{\ul Russell}{
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {3.\tab Religious Society of Friends
\par \tab Answer:\tab \tab George }{\ul Fox
\par 
\par }{29. Identify these knights killed by Lancelot in defense of his queen FTP each.
\par 1.  This wicked knight abducts Guinevere, who is ultimately rescued by Lancelot.
\par         Answer: Meleagant or Melwas
\par 2.  A son of King Lot and Queen Morgause, this knight and twelve others are slain by Lancelot during their assault on Guinevere's chambers.
\par         Answer: Aggravaine
\par 3.  Name either of two other sons of Lot and Morgause who are killed by Lancelot when he rescues Guinevere from the stake.
\par         Answer: Gaheris or Gareth
\par 
\par 30. Identify these related authors from works FTPE.
\par 1. }{\i The Back Country}{, }{\i The Old Ways}{, and }{\i Turtle Island}{
\par \tab Answer: Gary Snyder
\par 2. }{\i Gasoline}{, }{\i Happy Birthday of Death}{, }{\i Elegaic Feelings America}{
\par \tab Answer: Gregory Corso (do not accept Lee Corso)
\par 3. }{\i A Coney Island of the Mind}{, }{\i An Eye on the World}{, }{\i Pictures of the Gone World}{
\par \tab Answer: Lawrence Ferlinghetti
\par 
\par 31. Identify these concepts from the field of evolution FTPE.
\par 1. Stephen J. Gould and Niles Eldredge developed this theory which asserts that rather than evolution being a gradual process that it proceeds in spurts.
\par \tab Answer: punctuated equilibrium
\par 2. This type of speciation takes place when a species that inhabits the same area splits into two distinct species.
\par \tab Answer: sympatric speciation
\par 3. Gote Turesson carried out tests on different ecological races to determine if their differences were environmental or genetic. He found the differences to be largely genetic; what name did he give to these genetically distinct races of plants?
\par \tab Answer: ecotypes
\par 
\par 32. Identify these African leaders FTPE.
\par 1. He became President of Zaire in 1965. Charges of corruption plagued his government of the early 1980's and in 1990 he abolished the 20-year ban on multiparty politics. 
\par \tab Answer: Sese Seko Mobutu
\par 2. On October 21, 1969, this Major General led a bloodless coup and declared Somalia a socialist state. Civil war broke out in 1991 and he was forced to flee the capital.
\par \tab Answer: Muhammad Siad Barre
\par 3. A November, 1980 coup gave this man absolute power in Guinea-Bissau. He eventually initiated political liberalization; multiparty elections were held in 1994.
\par \tab Answer: Jaoa Bernardo Vieira
\par 
\par 33. Identify the romantic poet from some of his opening lines FTP or from the name of the poem FFP.
\par 1.  10:  "Ah, what can ail thee, wretched wight, /  Alone and palely loitering; / The sedge is wither'd from the lake, / And no birds sing."
\par 5:  "La Belle Dame sans Merci"
\par         Answer: John Keats
\par 2.  10:  "Souls of Poets dead and gone, / What Elysium have ye known?"
\par 5:  "Lines on the Mermaid Tavern"
\par         Answer: John Keats
\par 3.  10:  "O Goddess! hear these tuneless numbers, wrung / By sweet enforcement and remembrance dear, / And pardon that thy secrets should be sung / Even into thine own soft\_conched ear."
\par 5:  "Ode to Psyche"
\par         Answer: John Keats
\par 
\par 34. Identify these Flannery O\rquote Connor short stories from characters on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 1. 5: Carver and Julian
\par \tab Answer: Everything That Rises Must Converge
\par 2.  10: Mr. Shiftlet and Lucynell Crater
\par \tab Answer: The Life You Save May Be Your Own
\par 3.  15: A character from the novel }{\i Wiseblood}{ and the titular primate.
\par \tab Answer: Enoch and the Gorilla
\par 
\par 35. Identify the poems from which the following titles were taken FFP each.
\par 1.  A Handful of Dust
\par         Answer: The Waste Land by T.S. Eliot
\par 2.  Gone with the Wind                            
\par         Answer: Cynara by Ernest Dowson
\par 3.  Things Fall Apart
\par         Answer: The Second Coming by William Butler Yeats
\par 4.  Arms and the Man
\par         Answer: The Aeneid by Publius Virgilius Maro
\par 5.  After Many a Summer Dies the Swan
\par         Answer: Tithonus by Alfred, Lord Tennyson
\par 6.  Far from the Madding Crowd
\par         Answer: Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard by Thomas Gray
\par 
\par 36. Identify these parts of a prokaryotic cell FTPE.
\par 1. These membranous structures, which function in division are formed by infolding of the plasma membrane and never form free-floating organelles.
\par \tab Answer: mesosomes
\par 2. Cytoplasm consists of insoluble suspended particles and this which contains mostly water with dissolved ions and macromolecules.
\par \tab Answer: cytosol
\par 3. These appendages are look like corkscrews and spin on their axes like propellers. If they are removed, the cell cannot move.
\par \tab Answer: flagella
\par 
\par 37. Identify the following observations about electric circuits FTP each.
\par 1.  It states that the algebraic sum of the changes in potential encountered in a complete traversal of any closed circuit is zero.
\par         Answer: Kirchoff's Loop Rule or Kirchoff's Voltage Law
\par 2.  It posits that the induced current in a closed conducting loop appears in such a direction that it opposes the change that produced it.
\par         Answer: Lenz's Law
\par 3.  It argues that a circuit containing linear devices whose current is proportional to the applied voltage and independent sources can be replaced with a single voltage source with a single series impedance for analysis.
\par         Answer: Thevenin's Theorem or Pollard's Theorem
\par 
\par 38. Answer the following questions about La Gioconda.
\par 1.  This man wrote the libretto to Amilcare Ponchielli's opera La Gioconda under the pseudonym Tobia Gorrio.
\par         Answer: Arrigo Boito
\par 2.  This man wrote the 1898 drama La Gioconda about the sculptor Lucio Setalla and his titular muse.
\par         Answer: Gabriele D'Annuzio
\par 3.  This woman, who scored a triumph as La Gioconda in the play, was the mistress of both D'Annuzio and the librettist.
\par         Answer: Eleanora Duse
\par 
\par 39. Answer the following about a 1610 astronomical monograph for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5:  In what work did Galileo announce his discovery of the moons of Jupiter?
\par         Answer: Siderius Nuncius or The Sidereal Messenger
\par 2.  10:  What collective name did he apply to the four Galilean satellites?
\par         Answer: Medeci stars or Medeci planets
\par 3.  15:  In this nebulous area between Gamma and Delta Cancri, Galileo  reported seeing more than forty stars.
\par         Answer: Praesepe or The Manger or The Beehive or M44 or NGC
\par         2632
\par 
\par 40. Identify these figures from the Watergate scandal FTPE.
\par 1. This former FBI agent wrote a letter to the judge presiding over his trial on the charges of burglary. It was his letter to Judge John Sirica that implicated the Republican party and precipitated the events that followed.
\par \tab Answer: James McCord
\par 2. It was later disclosed that this man, one of the Watergate burglars, had earlier forged State Department documents to make it appear that J.F. Kennedy was implicated in the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam.
\par \tab Answer: E. Howard Hunt
\par 3. This man, who served as Attorney General between John Mitchell and Elliot Richardson, resigned in 1973.
\par \tab Answer: Richard G. Kleindienst
\par 
\par 41. Identify the twentieth century opera for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5:  The first act takes place in the Polka Saloon; the second, in Minnie's log cabin; the last, in a California forest.  Enrico Caruso created the role of Dick Johnson.
\par         Answer: La fanciulla del west or The Girl of the West (do not
\par         accept The Girl of the Golden West:  Belasco's play and the opera
\par         have different titles)
\par 2.  10:  Act three concludes with Baron Ochs' departure to the "Luck of the Lerchenaus," the great trio "Heb' mir's gelabt," Maria Theresa's cryptic "Ja, ja!" and Mohammed's triumphant exit with the Marschallin's dropped handkerchief.
\par         Answer: Der Rosenkavalier or The Knight of the Rose
\par 3.  15:  The first scene of this Ravel work features a ragtime duet between a teapot and a Chinese cup and a duet for a pair of cats; in the second scene, a boy is attacked by animals in his garden.
\par         Answer L'enfant et les sortileges or The Child and the Spells
\par 
\par 42. Identify these works of the medieval German writer Hartmann von Aue for 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\adjustright {1. Hartmann translated two of Chretien de Troyes\rquote s Arthurian romances.  Name any one of them.   Answer: Erec or Ywain
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {2. The title character of this work, the son of an incestuous relationship between a brother and sister, atones for incestuously marrying his mother by spending 17 years on a rock in a lake, after which he is made Pope.

\par \tab Answer: Gregorius 
\par 3. The title character rejects the only known cure for his leprosy, bathing in the blood of a virgin, although his young friend offers it willingly, upon which he is miraculously cured.
\par \tab Answer: Der Arme Heinrich or Poor Heinrich
\par 
\par 43. Translate the following words or expressions into Latin FTP each.
\par 1. I learn
\par \tab Answer: Disco
\par 2. Things that should be down
\par \tab Answer: Agenda
\par 3. Ant (the insect, not the female relative)
\par \tab Answer: formica
\par 
\par 44. Identify these Norse gods from a description of their abysmal performance at Ragnarok FTP each.
\par 1. This god steps up to fight the Fenris Wolf and promptly gets swallowed.
\par \tab Answer: Odin
\par 2. If his earlier fishing expedition with the giant Hymir had been successful, this god would not have dropped dead from the poison that his opponent spit at him.
\par \tab Answer: Thor
\par 3. This god, definitely a lover and not a fighter, didn\rquote t have his sword that fought by itself because he had given it to his servant Skirnir when Skirnir went to obtain the giantess Gerda as a wife for this god.
\par \tab Answer: Frey or Freyr (do not accept Freya, Frigg, etc.) 
\par 
\par 45. Given a class of compound and a reaction, name the class of compound that is yielded FTPE.
\par 1. A secondary alcohol is oxidized.
\par \tab Answer: ketone
\par 2. An alkyne is reacted with hydrogen and a platinum catalyst.
\par \tab Answer: alkane
\par 3. A carboxylic acid is reacted with an alcohol in the presence of an acid.
\par \tab Answer: ester
\par 
\par 46. Given a character from Greek mythology, name his parents for five points each.
\par 1. Phaedra
\par \tab Answer: Minos II and Pasiphae
\par 2. Rhadamanthus
\par \tab Answer: Zeus and Europa
\par 3. Semele
\par \tab Answer: Cadmus and Harmonia
\par 
\par 47. Given a French king, give his moniker for five points each with a bonus five for all correct.
\par 1. Charles III
\par \tab Answer: the fat
\par 2. Charles IV (Carolingian, not Capetian)
\par \tab Answer: the simple
\par 3. Charles II
\par \tab Answer: the bald
\par 4. John II
\par \tab Answer: the good
\par 5. Louis X
\par \tab Answer: the quarrelsome
\par }}