{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords6047}{\nofchars34473}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws42335}{\vern89}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\f0 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by University of Kentucky (Seth Kendall)
\par Tossups}{\f0  
\par 
\par 1. When we first meet him he is full of spite for his fiend Cliff Lewis and his wife Alison, who is on the point of leaving him despite her pregnancy though she makes no outwar
d show of pain. When Alison is finally persuaded to leave him by her friend Helena, he proceeds to have an affair with Helena, though when Alison returns having lost the baby, he takes her back now that she shows the pain he needed to see. Such is, FTP, w
hat disagreeable main character of John Osborne's }{\i\f0 Look Back in Anger}{\f0 ?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Jimmy}{\f0  }{\b\f0 Porter}{\f0  (accept }{\b\f0 either}{\f0  name, and prompt on \ldblquote Look Back in Anger\rdblquote  before the last clue)
\par 
\par 2. Joining the Confederate Army as a Lieutenant in 1861, this man was almost immediatel
y promoted to Brigadier General and commanded the Texas Brigade with distinction at Gaines' Mill, Second Manassas, and Sharpsburg. Severely wounded at Gettysburg trying to take the Little Round Top and again at Chickamauga, where he lost a leg, he was nev
ertheless Joseph E. Johnston's replacement in the defense of Atlanta, which he lost in 1863. FTP name this Confederate whose attempt to strike at Sherman's rear resulted in disasters at Franklin and Nashville.
\par Answer: John Bell }{\b\f0 Hood
\par }{\f0 
\par 3. In the 1930's this p
hysicist worked with Meissner on the magnetism of superconductors and he collaborated with the Londons on that subject. An early champion of relativity, the idea for his most famous scientific achievement came while on a skiing trip with Wilhelm Wein and 
S
ommerfield, when he became curious as to whether or not some of the shorter electromagnetic waves might not create an interference pattern in some mediums, like crystals. FTP name this man, whose discovery that X-Rays are refracted by crystals earned him 
the Nobel Prize in 1914.
\par Answer: Max von }{\b\f0 Laue
\par }{\f0 
\par 4. Legend has it that this man was a historian at the royal court of the Chou dynasty, and that in this capacity, he met a young Confucius, who praised his wisdom as the greatest he'd ever seen. Disgusted with 
his life in books, he is then said to have traveled to the west to the Hsien-ku pass, where the guardian of the pass addressed him by a name which means "Old Master", the name by which is better known, and offered him hospitality, and though he vanished b
y morning he left as payment a book of philosophy. FTP name this man, whose book is called the }{\i\f0 Tao Te-Ching}{\f0 .
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Lao-Tzu
\par }{\f0 
\par 5. Nat Miller has a problem because his son, Richard, is overly rebellious, following the example of his drunken uncle, Sid Davis. 
When David McComber refuses to let his daughter Muriel date Richard, he goes on a binge and consorts with Belle, a "swift babe from New Haven", but when he comes home things are straightened out and his girl Muriel purifies him with a kiss. Such is the pl
ot of, FTP what unusually comedic play by Eugene O'Neill?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ah, Wilderness
\par }{\f0 
\par 6. The son of Otto the Illustrious, this man became duke of Saxony in 912 and launched into a war with Conrad I of Franconia, who nevertheless left him the throne of Germany i
n 918. His exploits include subduing Arnulf of Bavaria and defeating Giselbert, king of Lotharingia, which was then was brought back under German control, as well as crushing the Magyars and adding Shleswig to the German state. FTP name this founder of th
e Saxon dynasty, the father of St. Bruno, who received his nickname because, according to legend, he was laying bird snares when informed of his election as king.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Henry the Fowler}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 Henry I}{\f0  
\par 
\par 7. The name of this geologic time period comes from the 
name of an ancient Celtic tribe which inhabited the Arenig mountains, where Charles Lapworth found many fossils from the time. During this time Laurentia and Baltica moved together and the Iapetus Sea dried up, and it was dominated by such life forms as G
raptolites , Ostracoderms,  tabulate corals, and  Nautiloids , while some land plants began to make their appearance. FTP name this period lasting from 505 to 438 million years ago, which followed the Cambrian and preceded the Silurian. 
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ordovician
\par }{\f0 
\par 8. Significant geographical features of this country are the Bie and Huila Plateaus, the Melanje highlands, and such rivers as the Cumbango, Okavango, and Kwanza rivers, the latter of whose dam, the Cambambe, provides much of the nation's hydroelectric po
wer. Its northernmost enclave, Cabinda, is separated from the rest of the nation by territory of Zaire, which borders on it to the North and East, while other neighbors include Congo to the north, Zambia to the southeast, and Namibia to the south. FTP nam
e this country on the Western coast of Africa whose capital is Luanda.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f0 Angola
\par }{\f0 
\par 9. Preysing is a pompous merchant who is maneuvering to make a merger to save his company; Kringelein is one of his employees who is terminally ill and embarks on one la
st fling; Flaemmchen is a working girl hired by Preysing for secretarial work and, later, for something more; Grusinskaya is a dancer who has all but given in to depression; and Felix, or "Flix", is an aristocrat and a thief who aims to rob Grusinskaya bu
t ends up falling in love with. Such are the fascinating people you'll meet if, FTP, you visit the location in the title of what 1932 Best Picture starring Wallace Beery, Joan Crawford, Lionel and John Barrymore, and Greta Garbo?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Grand Hotel}{\f0  
\par 
\par 10. A
djectivally it applies to something which is given, and it was once used as an alternate name for a type of covalent bond formed when both electrons can be regarded as supplied by one atom, as in the formation of OH- from O2- and H+, which is also known a
s
 a coordinate covalent bond. It is much more familiar to modern students of linguistics as the case in Russian, Sanskrit, Greek, and, of course, Latin which forms the object of intransitive verbs but has another, more common use. FTP give the name of the 
bond or of the case most commonly associated with the indirect object.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 dative}{\f0  
\par 
\par 11. Her adventures, narrated to a therapist named Spenser Montag, begin when she inherits her late husband's share of an acting company owned with his uncle Buck Loner. 
Her idea is to teach men how to behave in the age of "Woman Triumphant" and to avenge the many abuses of her late homosexual husband by forcing Buck Loner out and completely humiliating the acting student Rusty Godowsky, but by a strange twist of fate it 
is revealed after an auto accident that she is, in fact, her late husband who had had a sex change operation. Such is the weird plot of, FTP, what novel, one of the most famous of Gore Vidal?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Myra Breckinridge
\par }{\f0 
\par 12. After emigrating to the United Sta
tes this man passed himself off as a successful Russian portraitist who had studied in Paris and experimented with Automatism, enabling him to get a job from 1926 to 1931 teaching at the Grand Central School of Art. Turned on to surrealism in 1939, he beg
an painting such works as }{\i\f0 How My Mother's Embroidered Apron Unfolds in My Life}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 The Diary of a Seducer}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 The Liver Is the Cock's Comb}{\f0 . FTP name this painter of such works as }{\i\f0 The Betrothal}{\f0 
 originally named Vosdanik Adoian, whose name comes from the lead character of the }{\i\f0 Iliad}{\f0  and his favorite novelist, who hanged himself after an automobile accident in 1948 cost him painting hand.
\par Answer: Arshile }{\b\f0 Gorky
\par }{\f0 
\par 13. Egyptian history records that two wars under Pharoahs Merneptah and Ramses III were engaged against 
this group, and it is thought that invasions into Anatolia by them caused the breakup of the Hittite Empire. They are variously identified by the Egyptians as the Ekwesh, the ancestors of the Achaean Greeks, the Teresh or Tyrhennians, who were the ancesto
rs of Etruscans, and the Peselet, believed to be the Philistines. FTP, identify these unimaginatively named groups, named for their maritime tendencies.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Sea People}{\f0 s 
\par 
\par 14. From Earth the star Aldebaran seems to be a member of this cluster, though it 
is actually much closer than the 130 light-year distance of its five visible members. Associated with rain in many cultures, they rise during the season of spring rain of the Mediterranean, and, according to legend, they represent nurses of Dionysos whose
 grief at the death of their brother caused them to weep continuously, which fell to earth. FTP name these stars also known as the Taurus stream.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Hyades}{\f0  (prompt on \ldblquote Taurus stream\rdblquote )
\par 
\par 15. Of the many holders of this name in Classical mythology several
 are male, including the Titan husband of Styx who was the father of Nike, and the son of Evander, a dear friend of Aeneas who is killed by Turnus. Better known is the son of Pandion who attempted to drive Aegeas from the throne of Athens before being sla
in by Theseus, but best known is the daughter of Triton and associate of Athene who is killed by her by accident. FTP give this common name, which Athene in her grief took as one of her own.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Pallas}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16. Originally a lawyer, this man turned to poetry after meeting the Symbolists and produced such early works as the poetry collection }{\i\f0 Hot House Blooms}{\f0  and the dramas }{\i\f0 The Princess Maleine}{\f0 
. Moving away from Symbolism, he later penned historical works like }{\i\f0 Monna Vanna}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 The Burgomaster of Stilmonde}{\f0 ,  and the allegory }{\i\f0 Blue Bird}{\f0  as well as  the essays }{\i\f0 The Life of a Bee}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 
The Intelligence of Flowers}{\f0 , though none of these match the popularity of his greatest work. FTP name this man, winner of the 1911 Nobel Prize in Literature best known for }{\i\f0 Pelleas and Melisande}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Maurice }{\b\f0 Maeterlinck}{\f0  
\par 
\par 17. Details are sketchy, but it seems that conspirators included The Duke of Monmouth, The Earl of Essex, Algernon Sidney, and Sir Thomas Armstrong. The plan was to spring upon the king while on the road from a horse meet 
and Newmarket so that his more openly Catholic brother James II might ascend the throne, though the scheme was foiled when the king left early. FTP name this conspiracy named for a dwelling in Hoddeston, Hertfordshire near which the king was to be murdere
d in 1683.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Rye House}{\f0  plot
\par 
\par 18. In 1838 George Airy worked out the proof for the explanation given by Christian Huygens in 1678 that this curve was the catacaustic of a circle when the light source is infinity. The evolute of Cayley's sextic, this cu
rve is essentially a two-cusped epicycloid formed by a circle of radius A rolling externally on a fixed circle of radius 2A. FTP name this curve, given its modern name in 1878 by R.A. Proctor, who thought that its shape was reminiscent of a kidney. 

\par Answer: }{\b\f0 nephroid}{\f0 
\par 
\par 19. An ambitious producer named Frank has the idea of forming his own opera company with the help of his friend Buff and quickly gains the services of the singers Madame Herx and Mademoiselle Silberklang. The problem starts when each wants more
 money than the other, and Frank is on the point of hanging it up when his backer Monsieu Vogelsgand persuades the two prima donnas to work together for the good of the production. Such is the plot of what lighthearted satire of the vanity of opera singer
s by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart?
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Impressario}{\f0  or Der }{\b\f0 Scahuspieldirektor}{\f0 
\par 
\par 20. The tragic adventures of the protagonist begin when he is attacked by members of the Bollinger club who divest him of his pants and throw him into the night, leading to his
 expulsion from Scone for indecent behavior. After finding employment with the Llanabba school, his luck seems to improve when he is engaged to Margot Beste-Chetwynde, but after a bizarre episode he is sent to prison for trafficking in white slavery, thou
gh he escapes and later returns incognito to Scone.  This is, FTP, the plot of what novel about Paul Pennyfeather, written by Evelyn Waugh?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Decline and Fall
\par }{\f0 
\par 21. This island is about 146 miles long from east to west and about 35 miles wide from nort
h to south, and it consists of three major physiographic regions: a highly dissected limestone plateau, whose uninhabitable area is called the Cockpit country, forested highlands dominated by the famous Blue Mountains, and lowlands comprised of the Black 
River valley. The third largest island in the Carribean, its economy is based on export of aluminum, sugarcane, and coffee, and on tourism. FTP name this island nation whose capital is Kingston.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Jamaica
\par }{\f0 
\par 22. Born in Vienna in 1884, this man worked in a machine shop while trying to further his psychological studies at night. Inspired by a reading of Freud's  }{\i\f0 The Interpretation of Dreams}{\f0  , he wrote }{\i\f0 The Artist}{\f0 
, which brought him into Freud's circle, but he began to move away from Freud in such works as }{\i\f0 The  Myth of the Birth of the Hero}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 The Incest Motif in Poetry and Saga}{\f0 
, achieving his final break with his most famous work. FTP name this psychologist most famous for his }{\i\f0 The Trauma of Birth}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Otto }{\b\f0 Rank
\par }{\f0 
\par 23. After escaping from the Isle of Shoals, where he had been exiled by the Puritans, this man wrote an account of the New World called }{\i\f0 New English Canaan}{\f0 
 and attempted to gain another oeuvre into Massachusetts, which led to another exile to Maine. Arriving in 1624 as one of the owners of the Wo
llaston Company, which established a settlement at the site of modern Quincy, this man took charge of the settlement when Wollaston and most of the settlers moved to Virginia in 1626, founding a community decidedly opposed to that of his Puritan neighbors
. FTP name this man, whose foundation of the colony he called Merry Mount and its maypole is written about by Hawthorne.
\par Answer: Thomas }{\b\f0 Morton}{\f0  
\par 
\par 24. The term is derived from the Latin for stake, and the among the more famous regions given the name were the 
Cherta Oselosti, a region in the Russian empire in what is now Poland  where Jews were allowed to settle which became the site of frequent pogroms after the death of Alexander the II. Another was established in Ireland following the expedition of Henry II
 
which included the counties of Dublin, Louth, Meath, and Kildare as a place where English law was in force, and from the fact that brigands often lay beyond it we obtained modern our expression. FTP name these settlements, districts  separated from the su
rrounding country by defined boundaries or distinguished by a different administrative and legal system.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 pale
\par }{\f0 
\par 25. An ardent Classicist, this man's first calling was as a teacher of Greek, and from his position at the University of Wittenberg he did
 much to reorganize the German educational system. He soon became involoved in religious matters, publishing such woirks as }{\i\f0 Loci Communes}{\f0 
 and many treatises in defense of Protestantism and his good friend Martin Luther. FTP name this theologian, author of the }{\i\f0 Confession of Augsberg}{\f0 , whose name is a Hellenisation of his German name, Shcwartzerd, or "Black Earth".
\par Answer: Phillip }{\b\f0 Melanchthon
\par }{\f0 
\par 26. In later life this man worked with Sanger in his studies of Insulin and Richard Millington Synge in his chromatogr
ahpic analyses and became the president of the Nobel Foundation in 1960. From 1930 to 1937 he made many discoveries concerning the blood, includin that of albumin, usuing the technique for which he is best known. FTP name this biochemist, winner of the No
bel Prize for Chemistry in 1948 for his work on electrophoresis.
\par Answer: Arne }{\b\f0 Tiselius
\par }{\f0 
\par 27. On the night of June 3, 1943, eleven sailors on shore leave stated that they were attacked by a group of Mexicans, and in response  a group of over 200 uniformed sai
lors chartered 20 cabs and charged into the heart of the Mexican American community in East Los Angeles. The specific object were any person wearing a style of clothing associated with Mexicans and criminal behavior, and this violence was repeated over se
veral days until the Navy intervened put a stop to it. Such are the actual, rather unpleasant events known as, FTP, what a name now used in a popular song by the Cherry Poppin' daddies?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Zoot Suit}{\f0  Riots 
\par 
\par 28. First proposed by the French microbiologi
sts Francois Jacob and Jacques Monod in the early 1960s, these objects generally consist of a group of structural genes in a metabolic pathway located contiguously on a stretch of DNA which are controlled by a promoter. They act as a genetic regulatory sy
s
tem of single-celled organisms and their viruses, providing prokaryotes with the means to produce proteins only when and where they are required, allowing the cell to conserve energy . FTP name these cellular objects named because they were assumed to be 
essential to cell activity, which control the synthesis of enzymes in a cell.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 operon
\par }{\f0 
\par 29. The novel is split into four parts,  "Red and Black Laughter", "The Struggle for Life", "Men in War and the Death of Society", and "The Passing of a Great Race
 and The Making and Marring of Americans. It chronicles the adventures of Scripps O'Neill and Yogi Johnson, but it is more of a ruthless parody of Sherwood Anderson's }{\i\f0 Dark Laughter}{\f0 
 and satire on the literary scene of its author, Ernest Hemingway. FTP name this novel, the first published by Hemingway, which shares its title with a work by Ivan Turgenev.
\par Answer }{\b\f0 Torrents of Spring}{\f0   
\par 
\par 30. A student at the University of Berlin under Emil Fischer, in 1906 this man discovered carbon suboxide, and determined its pr
operties and chemical composition. He also devised an easily controlled method of removing some of the hydrogen atoms from certain organic molecules by the use of metallic selenium, but his most important work concerned the diene synthesis, and in 1928 he
 discovered the reaction of an activated olefin with a diene to give a cyclic structure. FTP name this chemist, who won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1950 with his student, Kurt Alder.
\par Answer: Otto }{\b\f0 Diels}{\f0 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by University of Kentucky (Seth Kendall)
\par Bonuses
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Paul Cezanne is perhaps best known for his still-life paintings, though his work embraced a wide variety of subjects. Given a description of a non-still life painting or paintings by the artist, name it, 15 points each.
\par 15. Two versions of this painting exist; in both a bearded man sits next to a bed on which an ample, nude woman lays. Perhaps its title suggests that it is an homage to an earlier painting by Manet.
\par Answer: A }{\b\f0 Modern Olympia
\par }{\f0 15. Cezanne painted several pictures of this structure, whose name comes form the fact that its owner, a maker of lampblack from Marseilles, used the stuff to decorate the interior of his home, from which arose a rumor that he was the devil.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Chateau Noir}{\f0  (accept "}{\b\f0 Black Castle}{\f0 " with a sigh)
\par 
\par 2. Identify the actor from clues, 30-20-10-5.
\par 30. In 1984 he was featured in the comedy }{\i\f0 Future Schlock}{\f0  playing the role of "The Man in White Suit", a reference to one of his earliest films of the same name, in which he plays an inventor of a stain-resistant, indestructible fabric.

\par 20. Other, more serious roles have included Gen. Yevgraf Zhivago, Prince Feisal in }{\i\f0 Lawrence of Arabia}{\f0 , and Jacob Marley in }{\i\f0 Scrooge}{\f0 .
\par 10. His role as Colonel Nicholson in }{\i\f0 Bridge on the River Kwai}{\f0  earned him an Academy Award.
\par 5. He is best known now for his role as a ghost in two sequels or a picture in which he played a Jedi Knight.
\par Answer: Alec }{\b\f0 Guinness
\par }{\f0 
\par 3. This bonus will test your knowledge of the works of the French author Jean Giraudoux. Given such a work, give its title, 10 points each.
\par 1. This play is a treatment of an earlier play by Friedrich von Fouque which tells the tale of the tragic love between a water spirit and a knight; it was also the subject of an opera by E.T.A. Hoffman.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Ondine}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 Undine
\par }{\f0 2. In this more lighthearted work, an eccentric elderly woman manages to humiliate the exploiters and financier of Paris.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f0 Madwoman of Chaillot}{\f0  or La }{\b\f0 Folle de Chaillot}{\f0 
\par 3. Set at Troy just before the advent of the war, this play tells of the struggle of Hector to prevent the war which are defeated by an enflamed Trojan mob.  
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Tiger at the Gates}{\f0  (accept also "The Trojan War will not take place" or reasonable equivalents of}{\b\f0  }{\f0 La Guerre de Troie n'aura pas lieu)
\par 
\par 4. In the course of the life of this American woman she became a stockbroker, a magazine publisher, and, in 1872, the first woman presidential campaign. For 10 points each:
\par 1. Who was this remarkable woman, the candidate of the Equal Rights Party with running mate Frederick Douglass?
\par Answer: Victoria }{\b\f0 Woodhull
\par }{\f0 2. With her sister, Tennessee Claflin, Woodhull published the Woodhull and Claflin's Weekly magazine, which got them indicted for sending improper material through the mails when they published accounts of the affair of this man, a prominent
 Congregationalist clergyman, with the wife of Theodore Tilton.
\par Answer: Henry Ward }{\b\f0 Beecher
\par }{\f0 3. Woodhull and Claflin's Weekly was also the first periodical to publish an English translation of this tract, written by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Communist Manifesto
\par }{\f0 
\par 5. Identify the following ancient mathematicians, 10 points each.
\par 1.This Alexandrian lived between 200 and 284 of the Common Era. Though he himself makes reference to a book of theorems called }{\i\f0 Porisms}{\f0 , all we have from him is his }{\i\f0 Arithmetica}{\f0 
, a collection of 130 problems giving numerical solutions of determinate equations and indeterminate equations, the method for solving the latter of which is now known as his analysis. 
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Diophantus
\par }{\f0 2. A contemporary of Plato, who named a dia
logue for him, this mathematician is thought to have been the first to demonstrate that the square root of n is irrational whenever n is not a perfect square.  The first to study the octahedron and the icosahedron, Euclid's 10th and 13th books are almost 
certainly a description of his work.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Theaetetus
\par }{\f0 3. This philosopher and mathematician became head of the neo-Platonist school in Alexandria. Cyril came to resent her influence, and she was brutally murdered by a Christian mob.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Hypatia}{\f0  
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following figures from Hindu mythology on a 5-10-15 point basis.
\par 5.  This avatar of Vishnu is the subject of an Epic which describes the abduction of his wife Sita by Ravana and his fight to take her back with the help of the monkey god Hanuman.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Rama
\par }{\f0 10.  In Vedic hymns this god was the first-born of the primeval chaos that makes all later creation possible. The personification of erotic desire, he was killed by Shiva but restored to life, and his name is familiar as half of the title of
 a Hindu love manual.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Kama
\par }{\f0 15. The first man, son of Vivasvat and Saranyu, this god was thus the first man to die, and as such he became the lord of the dead and judge of mortals in the underworld.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Yama}{\f0  
\par 
\par 7. In September of 1917 a German ge
neral by the name of Oskar von Hutier formulated a strategic doctrine quite unlike the strategies of other generals in the war. His plans, which called for specialized tasks for highly trained soldiers, a brief artillery barrage which did not give away hi
s movements too early, the rapid introduction of shock troops, and concentration in weak parts of the line, proved to be a devastating new weapon to the Kaisar's army. For 10 points each:
\par 1. Name this battle, which saw the premiere of the so-called "Hutier" tactics, named for the Latvian city near which it was fought, whose complete success on the German part brought about the treaty of Brest-Litovsk.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f0 Riga
\par }{\f0 2. Von Hutier drew much of his tactical ideas from the July, 1914 offensive of this Russian general, who was forced by lack or artillery ammunition to use tactics very similar to those used at Riga.
\par Answer: Alexei }{\b\f0 Brusilov
\par }{\f0 3. Hutier tactics were employed by Otto Von Below in this October 1917 battle, in which the Italian forces under Cadorna were completely crushed and which saw the capture of 8,000 Italian prisoners by a Lieutenant Erwin Rommel.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Caporetto
\par }{\f0 
\par 8. Identify the following physical effects, 10 points each.
\par 1. Defined as production of light by the flow of electrons, this ef
fect is one of the few instances in which a direct conversion of electric energy into visible light takes place without the generation of heat. There are two main types: pure or intrinsic (also called the Destriau effect), in which no net current passes t
hrough the phosphor, and charge injection, which requires the  passage of an electric current.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 electroluminescence
\par }{\f0 2. This effect is defined as the portion of the ability of a material to allow an electric current to flow in it that is affected by exposure to light. It is frequently used to detect and measure the amount of light. 
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 photoconductivity
\par }{\f0 3. Defined as the process in which two dissimilar materials in close contact act as an electric cell when struck by light or other radiant energy, this effect, as its name implies, is used in the modern solar battery.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Photovoltaic}{\f0  effect
\par 
\par 9. Identify the common geographical name, 30-20-10.
\par 30. The Irish one is a medium sized city on an Island of the same name that lies in the county of Kerry.
\par 20. The Venezualan one is the capital of Carabobo state on the Rio Cabriales in the central highlands which was three times capital of the republic, in 1812, 1830, and 1858. Today it is one of Venezuela's two major industrial centers and the site of the 
Universidad de Carabobo.
\par 10. The Spanish one, capital of the province of the same name, is called "the city of the 100 bell towers", and is famous for such buildings as the Lonja de la Seda (or Silk Exchange); the Palacio de la Diputacin and the 18th-centu
ry Neoclassical Palacio de Justicia. It is considerably more famous for its gardens, which produce some of the best oranges in the world.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f0 Valencia}{\f0  
\par 
\par 10. Identify the composers of the following geographically-minded pieces, 10 points each.
\par 1. The }{\i\f0 Italian Symphony}{\f0 , or }{\i\f0 Symphony Number 4 in A major
\par }{\f0 Answer: Felix }{\b\f0 Mendelssohn}{\f0 -Bartholdy
\par 2. }{\i\f0 Symphonie espagnole}{\f0  for violin and orchestra, 1874
\par Answer: Edouard }{\b\f0 Lalo
\par }{\f0 3. }{\i\f0 Polish Symphony}{\f0 , or  }{\i\f0 Symphony No.3}{\f0 , Op.29 
\par Answer: Pyotr }{\b\f0 Tchaikovsky
\par }{\f0 
\par 11. During the fourth c
entury before the Common Era Thebes enjoyed a rare military supremacy in Greece due to the actions of one of the most remarkable military minds of history, Epaminondas. Answer some questions about his life and exploits, 10 points each.
\par 1. Epaminondas made his reputation at this battle of 371 BC, at which he totally defeated the forces of the Spartans and ended their hegemony in Greece forever.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f0 Leuctra
\par }{\f0 2. Epaminondas later defeated the Spartans and Athenians together at this 362 battle, where he died.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f0 Mantinea
\par }{\f0 3. During the 360's this man, the son of Amyntas, was a hostage to Thebes and served as a lieutenant in the army of Epaminondas, where he may have learned the tactics he employed at the battle of Chaeronea as king of Macedonia.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Phillip}{\f0  II
\par 
\par 12. Identify the common scientific surname from a description of its holders, 30-20-10.
\par 30. Walter Rudolf shared the 1949 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine with Egas Moniz for his studies of the function of different areas of the Brain.
\par 20. Victor shared the 1936 Nobel Prize in Physics with Carl Anderson for his discovery of cosmic rays.
\par 10. Germain Henri was a Swedish-born Russian chemist who formulated a law, called the law of constant heat summation, stated that "heat 
developed in a given chemical change is constant independent of whether the changes occur in one stage or many", a law better known by his name.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Hess}{\f0  
\par 
\par 13. Time to ask how much you about the first murderer (well, according to the Bible, anyway). Identify the following concerning Cain FTP each.
\par 1. After the unpleasantness with Abel Cain is given his mark and sent out to live in this place, a mysterious place "East of Eden".
\par Answer: Land of }{\b\f0 Nod
\par }{\f0 2. While in the land of Nod, Cain finds a wife somewhere 
and begets a son, after whom he names the city he is building, as such becoming both the first homicide and the first city dweller. Name this son of Cain and namesake of the first City of the Bible.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Enoch}{\f0  or }{\b\f0 Henoch
\par }{\f0 3. Oh, what the hell: Cain had another brother who escaped Cain's wrath. Identify him, the third son of Adam and Eve whose name means "appointed".
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Seth
\par }{\f0 
\par 14. Perhaps due to its longevity, the Cabinet of FDR included many interesting people. Identify the following from descriptions, 10 points each.
\par 1. This man served as Secretary of Agriculture from 1933 to 1940, resigning to serve as Vice-President from 1940 to 1944, before his suspected pro-Communist leanings persuaded Roosevelt to dump him for Truman. As compensation, he was offer
ed a third Cabinet post, Secretary of Commerce, which he held from 1944 into Truman's presidency in 1946. 
\par Answer: Henry }{\b\f0 Wallace
\par }{\f0 2. A social worker in New York City through the 1920's, this man served first as administrator of the Federal Emergency Relief 
Administration and later as director of the WPA before being named Secretary of Commerce in 1938, a post he held until serious illness forced him to resign in 1940. 
\par Answer: Harry }{\b\f0 Hopkins
\par }{\f0 3. Serving from 1933 to 1945 as Secretary of Labor, this woman was the first female Cabinet member and helped secure the passage of the Social Security act.
\par Answer: Frances }{\b\f0 Perkins
\par }{\f0 
\par 15. In the first century before the Common Era Rome was fairly rocked by a dangerous and profligate beauty, the brother of a notorious demagogue who was accused of murdering her first husband, Quintus Metellus Celer. For 10 points each:
\par 1. Name both this woman, who would be immortalized as by a poet who was one of her lovers.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Clodia}{\f0  (accept "}{\b\f0 Lesbia}{\f0 ")
\par 2. Name the poet who wrote of his love for "Lesbia".
\par Answer: Gaius Valerius }{\b\f0 Catullus}{\f0  
\par 3. One of Clodia's bitterest enemies was this prominent Roman, whom Plutarch suggests had once been engaged to her, who used his considerable oratorical talents to defend Marcus Caelius Rufus on charges of "vis", or violent acts, trumped up by her.
\par Answer: Marcus Tullius }{\b\f0 Cicero
\par }{\f0 
\par 16. Identify these features of Australian geography, 10 points each.
\par 1. This is the principal river of Australia, whose tributaries include the Darling, Murrumbidgee, Ovens, and Loddon rivers.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Murray}{\f0  river
\par 2. The Murray empties into this wide embayment of the Indian Ocean that indents Australia's southern coast.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Great Australian Bight
\par }{\f0 3. Also known as the Eastern Cordillera, this mountain range comprises the main waters
hed of eastern Australia and consists of a series of plateaus and mountain ranges roughly paralleling the coasts of Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria. It contains the Australian Alps and Mount Kosciusko.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Great Divide}{\f0  
\par 
\par 17. Answer the following questions concerning American literature for the stated number of points.
\par 10. In this novel, the aging sportswriter Word Smith tells of the trials and tribulations of the Ruppert Mundys and the gradual destruction of the patriot League. Name this novel
, which features such divinely inspired character names as Roland Agni, Gil Gamesh, and Big John Baal.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Great American Novel
\par }{\f0 5. Name the author of }{\i\f0 The Great American Novel}{\f0 , perhaps more famous for }{\i\f0 Portnoy's Complaint}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Phillip }{\b\f0 Roth
\par }{\f0 15. Roth has written no less than six novels, including }{\i\f0 My Life as a Man}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Ghost Writer}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Anatomy Lesson}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 Counterlife}{\f0 
, which deal with this character. For a final 15 points name this character, a writer who is "Bound" and "Unbound" in the course of the saga.
\par Answer: Nathan }{\b\f0 Zuckerman}{\f0 
\par 
\par 18. Identify the following terms from physics, 10 points each.
\par 1. This force, named for the French physicist who proposed it, is the attraction or repulsion of particles or objects because of their electric charge.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Coulomb}{\f0  Force
\par 2. This is the auxiliary electric field or electric vector that represents that aspect of an electric field associated solely with the presence of separated free electric charges, purposely excluding the contribution of any electric charges bound tog
ether in neutral atoms or molecules.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 electric displacment
\par }{\f0 3. This is a universal electric constant appearing in the mathematical formulation of two fundamental phenomena, the existence of a physical force between two separated electric charges, and
 the modification of the properties of an electric field attending the introduction into it of a dielectric.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 permittivity
\par }{\f0 
\par 19. Between 1740 and 1762 Maria Thereas of Austria and Frederick the Great of Prussia engaged in three wars over a province, now Polish, which Frederick claimed through an old Brandenburgian testament. For 10 points each:
\par 1. Name this province, which was ultimately won by Frederick through the three wars named for it.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Silesia
\par }{\f0 2. The last Silesian war merged with what conflict, fought on the continent between 1756 to 1763?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Seven Years\rquote  }{\f0 War
\par 3. The advent of the Seven Years\rquote  war was proceeded by a series of realignments of alliances, with the result that Britain, usually an ally of France, got into bed with Prussia w
hile France courted Austria, all countries which traditionally hated each other in what became known as what?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Diplomatic Revolution
\par }{\f0 
\par 20. Identify the following about the works of Joseph Conrad, 10 points each.
\par 1. In this grim Conrad novel a governm
ent informer named Verloc joins a group of anarchists and persuades one of them, his imbecile brother-in-law Stevie, to blow up the Greenwich Observatory; when Stevie fails and blows himself up in the process, Verloc's wife Winnie kills Verloc and, later,
 herself.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Secret Agent
\par }{\f0 2. As a young man this character is the hero of Conrad's }{\i\f0 The Rescue}{\f0 . He later figures into }{\i\f0 Almayer's Folly}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 An Outcast of the Islands}{\f0  as a powerful trader who apprentices Almayer and, later, Willems.

\par Answer: Captain }{\b\f0 Lingard}{\f0 
\par 3. Conrad completed two novels, }{\i\f0 The Inheritors}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Romance}{\f0 , with this author. Name this man, better known for }{\i\f0 The Good Soldier}{\f0  and the tetralogy }{\i\f0 Parade's End}{\f0 .
\par Answer: Ford Madox }{\b\f0 Ford}{\f0 
\par 
\par 21. Answer the following questions about an English literary figure, 15-10-5.
\par 15. Among the over many plays of this dramatist are }{\i\f0 The Image}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 Damer's Gold}{\f0 , }{\i\f0 The Golden Apple}{\f0 , and }{\i\f0 The Dragon}{\f0 . Name this playwright, also known for the collections of Irish Folktales such as }{\i\f0 
Gods and Fighting Men.
\par }{\f0 Answer: Isabella Augusta }{\b\f0 Gregory}{\f0  or Lady }{\b\f0 Gregory
\par }{\f0 10. The Lady Gregory's personal estate, Coole, was so lovely that it inspired the poem "Wild Swans at Coole" by this poet, also known for such poems as "Sailing to Byzantium".
\par Answer: William Butler }{\b\f0 Yeats}{\f0  
\par 5. The Lady Gregory and Yeats, along with, later, John Millington Synge, founded what playhouse in Dublin in 1904?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Abbey}{\f0  Theater
\par 
\par 22. Identify the following works of literature with a common these, 10 points each.
\par 1. In this Genet work, the domestics Claire and Solange betray their employer's lover to the police and attempt to poison her, but when that fails Claire decides to take the employer's place and forces Solange to kill her.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Maids
\par }{\f0 2. In this work by Beaumont and Fletcher Amintor and Melantius attempt to avenge 
themselves on the king who has wronged them by having Amintor's wife, Evadne, who is also the king's mistress, murder him; Amintor and Evadne both commit suicide, but Melantius is prevented from doing so by the new king, who promises to do better than his
 predecessor.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Maid's Tragedy
\par }{\f0 3. In this work by Schiller history is altered somewhat so that the heroine, Joan of Arc, dies in battle instead of at the stake.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f0 Maid of Orleans
\par 
\par }{\f0 23. Identify the author from works, 30-20-10.
\par 30: }{\i\f0 A Transit To Narcissus}{\f0 ; }{\i\f0 Barbary Shore}{\f0 ; }{\i\f0 Harlot's Ghost
\par }{\f0 20: }{\i\f0 An American Dream}{\f0 ; }{\i\f0 Tough Guys Don't Dance}{\f0 ; }{\i\f0 Ancient Evenings
\par }{\f0 10: }{\i\f0 The Naked and the Dead}{\f0 ; }{\i\f0 Armies of the Night
\par }{\f0 Answer: Norman }{\b\f0 Mailer
\par }{\f0 
\par 24. Identify the following philosophers with a common bonus, 10 points each. 
\par 1. Born in 1710, this Scot succeeded Adam Smith at the University of Glagsgow, where he wrote his most famous works, }{\i\f0 Inquiry into the Human Mind}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Essays on the Intellectual Powers of Man,}{\f0 
 in which he formulated the principles for his Philosophy of Common Sense.
\par Answer: Thomas }{\b\f0 Reid
\par }{\f0 2. An early adherent to Thomas Reid and his Common Sense philosophy was this man, a longtime editor of the Edinburgh Review who sought to combine the Common Sense doctrines to the work of Kant. Name this author of }{\i\f0 Philosoph
y of the Unconditioned}{\f0 , better known for his work in Logic.
\par Answer: William }{\b\f0 Hamilton
\par }{\f0 3. In 1925 this man also did work on the philosophy of Common Sense with his }{\i\f0 Defense of Common Sense}{\f0 . Name this man, inventor of the "naturalistic fallacy", a member of the Bloomsbury Group perhaps better known for his }{\i\f0 
Principia Ethica}{\f0 .
\par Answer: George }{\b\f0 Moore
\par }{\f0 
\par 25. As, perhaps, few remember today, the film }{\i\f0 Wings}{\f0  was not the only Best Picture of 1927; as Best Picture, Production it shared billing for Best Picture with the best 
Picture, unique and artistic, which went to another film. For the stated number of points:
\par 1. (15 points) For 15 points name this film, subtitled "A song of Two Humans", in which a man, tired of his placid rural life, decided to murder his wife and have a torrid affair with a woman from the City, but repents of it and lives happily ever after.

\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Sunrise}{\f0 
\par 2. (10 points) For her role in no less than three films, including }{\i\f0 Sunrise}{\f0 , this woman was nominated for Best Actress in 1927, winning for her role in }{\i\f0 Seventh Heaven}{\f0 
. For 10 points name this woman, later nominated for her role in }{\i\f0 A Star is Born}{\f0 , the first Best Actress Award Winner 
\par 3. (5 points) For a final 5 points, name the director of }{\i\f0 Sunrise}{\f0 , better known for such films as }{\i\f0 The Last Laugh}{\f0  and }{\i\f0 Nosferatu}{\f0 .
\par Answer: F.W. }{\b\f0 Murnau
\par }{\f0 
\par 26. Identify the following interestingly named economic phenomena, 10 points each
\par 1. This is the term for money in the form of foreign investments which a country recieves when it has a favorable rate of interest but which will be taken out should a more favorable interest rate be found elsewhere.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Hot Money
\par }{\f0 2. This phenomenon is the movement of wealth from cash to interest bearing assets due to expectations of price increases or of a fall in the interest rate.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 flight from cash
\par }{\f0 3. This refers to the desire of those on whom an unfair tax is levied to harm those who levy the tax; an example is the decrease in work effort made by those on whom an unpopular income tax is imposed with the hope that revenue raised by the tax
 will diminish, and that the feeling of revenge achieved will compensate the taxpayer for his own losses.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 spite effect
\par }{\f0 \{Note to editor: when I found this last in my economics dictionary, I had to write about it; hope you find it as amusing as I did\}
\par 
\par 27. Identify the following about a powerful Italian family which dominated Northern Italy in the Renaissance for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (10 points) This family acquired its surname from the hereditary title it claimed in Milan early in the 11th
 century. It rose to prominence in 1277, when Ottone defeated the Della Torre at the Battle of Desio; it would thereafter rule much of Italy until the death of Filipepo Maria in 1447, and members of it were the sponsors of such Humanists as Petrarch.

\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Visconti
\par }{\f0 2. (5 points)The Visconti were finally driven out by this condotierre chief, who founded his own family which ruled Milan and Northen Italy until 1522, when the last male died without hier.
\par Answer: Francesco }{\b\f0 Sforza
\par }{\f0 3. (15 points)One implacable 
enemy of the Visconti was this pope, successor of Clement V and second Avignon pope, who placed all of Milan under interdict and even called for a crusade against the Visconti. He is also known for his quarrels with Holy Roman Emperor Louis IV and his sta
nce against the so-called Spiritual Franciscans and his views on the Beatific Vision.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 John XXII
\par }{\f0 
\par 28. Answer the following disease-related questions, 10 points each.1. This illness is an acute viral infection affecting the skin and nerves, characteri
zed by groups of small blisters appearing along certain nerve segments. The lesions are most often seen on the back and may be preceded by a dull ache in the affected site. In most cases, spontaneous recovery occurs within two weeks, but neuralgia may per
sist for months or even years after recovery from the infection. Name this affliction, also known as herpes zoster.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 shingles
\par }{\f0 2. This American physician and virologist  was the first to isolate the common aetiological virus for both shnigles and chic
ken pox, and was the first to achieve the laboratory propagation of rubella. he shared with John Enders and Frederick Robbins the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1954 for the successful cultivation of poliomyelitis virus in tissue cultures.

\par Answer: Thomas H. }{\b\f0 Weller
\par }{\f0 3. Weller was the first to propose and name these viruses, defined as members of the Herpesviridae characterised for the enlarged cells produced by active infections notable for  inclusion of foreign matter, especially in the nucleus. 
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 cytomegalovirus
\par }{\f0 
\par 29. Identify the following terms from the study of magnetism, 10 points each.
\par 1. This term is defined as the lagging of the magnetization of a ferromagnetic material, such as iron, behind variations of the magnetizing field.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 Hysteresis
\par }{\f0 2. Also known as residual induction or retentivity, this is the term used for the positive value of the magnetic flux density when the field strength has been reduced to zero.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 remanence
\par }{\f0 3. Remanence of permanent magnets itself is so powerful that the value of magnetic flux in them does not become zero until the magnetic field strength assumes negative values. These values are known as what?
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 coercive force}{\f0 s
\par 
\par 30. Isolating new elements is a difficult task, as many chemists have in
dicated. In fact, no less than three elements have been given names which in some way allude to the difficulty inherent in discovering them. For 10 points each, name these three elements, two of whose names means "hidden" and the other means "hard to obta
in", whose atomic numbers are 36, 57, 66.
\par Answer: }{\b\f0 lanthanum}{\f0 , }{\b\f0 Krypton}{\f0 , }{\b\f0 Dysprosium}{\f0 
\par }}