{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s17\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 envelope return;}{\s18\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \fs32\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Body Text 2;}}{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat2\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid131753950}
{\list\listtemplateid-1004644940\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid237251008}
{\list\listtemplateid488541268\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat15\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid240717758}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid278268695}
{\list\listtemplateid-922847454\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid296298180}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid358317588}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid384108528}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid405347348}
{\list\listtemplateid538579006\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid418671932}
{\list\listtemplateid172634064\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid553590562}
{\list\listtemplateid-1604935818\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid631667171}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid663629767}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid802626006}
{\list\listtemplateid-1327435280\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid880435531}
{\list\listtemplateid67698705\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid986472949}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1019967058}
{\list\listtemplateid141477304\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat10\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1299189590}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1383600354}
{\list\listtemplateid67698705\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1465461709}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1510564010}
{\list\listtemplateid67698705\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1574511776}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1641298815}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1774011349}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1836068400}
{\list\listtemplateid-1033092130\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1850631830}
{\list\listtemplateid-2080721618\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1854609340}
{\list\listtemplateid-704623724\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-720\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid1873961465}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat2\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid2113478400}
{\list\listtemplateid67698703\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid2122869399}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1510564010\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid358317588\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid418671932\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid1465461709\listoverridecount0\ls4}
{\listoverride\listid1019967058\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid802626006\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid1574511776\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid1383600354\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid1836068400
\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid278268695\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid405347348\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid1641298815\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid986472949\listoverridecount0\ls13}
{\listoverride\listid1774011349\listoverridecount0\ls14}{\listoverride\listid553590562\listoverridecount0\ls15}{\listoverride\listid1299189590\listoverridecount0\ls16}{\listoverride\listid240717758\listoverridecount0\ls17}{\listoverride\listid131753950
\listoverridecount0\ls18}{\listoverride\listid2113478400\listoverridecount0\ls19}{\listoverride\listid2122869399\listoverridecount0\ls20}{\listoverride\listid1873961465\listoverridecount0\ls21}{\listoverride\listid1850631830\listoverridecount0\ls22}
{\listoverride\listid296298180\listoverridecount0\ls23}{\listoverride\listid1854609340\listoverridecount0\ls24}{\listoverride\listid663629767\listoverridecount0\ls25}{\listoverride\listid384108528\listoverridecount0\ls26}{\listoverride\listid880435531
\listoverridecount0\ls27}{\listoverride\listid631667171\listoverridecount0\ls28}{\listoverride\listid237251008\listoverridecount0\ls29}}{\info{\title 1] Q: A French army of 60,000 was met in Bavaria while aiming to knock Austria}
{\author Jesse Marti Molesworth}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min5}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min5}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords4129}{\nofchars23538}{\*\company .}{\nofcharsws28906}{\vern89}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \cgrid {\b\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Questions by Stanford A (Jesse Molesworth, Adam Kemezis, Elliot Mandel, Kenny Easwaran)
\par Tossups}{
\par 
\par 1. A French army of 60,000 was met in Bavaria while aiming to knock Austria out of a European war. The French lost 40,000 men to a combined 
British-Savoyard force. This began a string of French losses including Oudenard, Ramillies and Malplaquet. FTP, name this 1704 battle, the turning point in both the War of Spanish Succession and the career of John Churchill, later Duke of Marlborough.

\par  Answer: The Battle of }{\b Blenheim}{
\par 
\par 2. This fictional character eventually comes under the protection of Dante Gabriel Rosetti.  However, she is better known for her walks along the Cobb in Lyme Regis and her affair with amateur paleontologist Charles Smithson.  
Named Sarah Woodruff, identify this character portrayed by Meryl Streep in a 1981 movie, the title character of a novel by John Fowles.
\par Answer:  }{\i The }{\b French Lieutenant\rquote s Woman}{ [Technically it\rquote s pronounced \ldblquote Leff TEN ant\rdblquote ]
\par [Accept Sarah }{\b Woodruff}{ before her name is mentioned]
\par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
3. The simplest member of this group, which also yields the whole group its name, is described by the chemical formula C5H4N4.  Other members include xanthene, which is found in tea, caffeine, and uric acid.  FTP, name this class heterocy
clic organic compounds consisting of two rings of carbon and nitrogen atoms, the most famous of which are guanine and adenine.
\par Answer: }{\b Purines}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 4. The first American-Indian-language newspaper was printed on their settlement of New Echota in 1828, in a writ
ten language devised by Sequoyah.  They lost that land after Andrew Jackson famously refused to uphold a Supreme Court decision that declared Georgia had annexed the land unconstitutionally.  FTP, name this largest of the Five Civilized Tribes, which was 
decimated by the forced march known as the Trail of Tears.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer:  }{\b Cherokee}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 5. In Matlab, it is the percent sign.  In FORTRAN, the letter C.  In Pascal, enclosure between parentheses and asterisks.  In Perl, the pound sign.  In C++, double forward slash, 
or, as in C, enclosure between forward slashes and asterisks.  FTP, what are these symbols in their respective languages?
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer: }{\b comment}{ markers or }{\b comment}{s
\par 
\par 6. Ralph (rafe) Vaughan (von) Williams wrote one for the harmonica, and one for the tuba, as well
 as more standard ones using a piano, viola, or one or two violins.  In more popular repertoire, Haydn wrote two for the cello, Beethoven wrote five for the piano, and Vivaldi wrote over three hundred for the violin.  For ten points, what musical genre di
d Bela Bartok revolutionize in 1943 when he wrote the first one for an orchestra without a featured soloist?
\par Answer:  }{\b Concerto}{\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 7. She was the great granddaughter of theologian Lyman Beecher, which also connects her to Harriet Beecher Stowe.  Her husband le
ft her to marry her best friend, the writer Grace Ellery Channing.  However, she is probably best known for her relationship to her doctor S. Weir Mitchell, who prescribed a \ldblquote rest cure\rdblquote  for her \ldblquote nervous disorders.\rdblquote 
  FTP name the writer who transformed her treatment for depression into the short story \ldblquote The Yellow Wall-Paper.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:  Charlotte Perkins }{\b\fs20 Gilman}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {8. The inventor of the \lquote silent\rquote  dog whistle, he also attempted to compile a map of human physical beauty in England. A pioneer in statistics, he creat
ed the first regression line and developed correlational calculus.  He was the first person to realize that fingerprints were unique.  FTP name this cousin of Charles Darwin whose belief that genius is inherited led him to found the eugenics movement.

\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer:  Francis }{\b\fs20 Galton}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 9. The Pregel River, formed by the confluence of its two branches, runs through the town and flows on either side of the island of Kneiphof.  The townspeople had wondered whether it was possible to go for a walk and cross each of the s
even bridges spanning the river and its branches once and once only before returning home.  Since there are four vertices of odd order, Euler showed that this was impossible.  FTP, name this problem associated with Kaliningrad that became one of the bases
 of graph theory.
\par Answer: Bridges of}{\fs20\ul  }{\b\fs20 Konnigsberg}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par 10. This man is not Prince Hamlet.  He is incapable of hearing the mermaids.  He does not dare even eat a peach.  Women constantly mock the bald spot in his head and the thinness of his arms and legs.  He can\rquote 
t even join their foolish discussions of Michelangelo.  FTP name this creation of T.S. Eliot who issues an ironic \ldblquote love song.\rdblquote 
\par Answer:  J. Alfred }{\b Prufrock}{
\par 
\par 11. According to Aristotle, it was introduced as part of Cleisthenes' reforms, and the first one c
oncerned one Hipparchus, son of Charmus. At a meeting set aside for the purpose in the winter, any Athenian citizen could scratch the name of another citizen on a shard of pottery. At various times, popular names included Themistocles and Aristedes, both 
of whom received the punishment of 10 years' expulsion from Attica. FTP, name this practice, now synonymous with social shunning.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Ostracism}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par 12. It falls more than 6,700 feet through granite canyons in the 100 miles between its source in Leadville 
and Canon City, Colorado. The Verdigris, Salt Fork, Canadian and Cimarron Rivers all reach the Mississippi by means of this river, and cities along its banks include Pueblo, Dodge City, and Tulsa. FTP, name this river that is prohibited by law from rising
 higher than the Main Street Bridge in Little Rock.
\par Answer:  The }{\b Arkansas}{ River
\par 
\par 13. At the age of 23 he was excommunicated from his synagogue for his daring challenges to orthodox thought.  One of his most shocking ideas was a precursor to modern Pantheism
: he considered God and the universe to be the same thing, and always referred to it as \ldblquote God-or-nature\rdblquote 
.  These ideas branded him as a dangerous atheist in 17th century Europe.  For ten points, what Dutch philosopher developed his own views as criticism of those of Descartes?
\par Answer:  Baruch (Benedict) }{\b Spinoza}{
\par 
\par 14. In Book II, the novelist Eliza Haywood is given away as a prize in a pissing contest.  The Preface claims that the poem is modeled on the apocryphal Homeric epic }{\i Margites}{, and it describes the as
cension of the goddess Dulness, whose reign in England culminates with a gigantic yawn in Book IV.  It attacks over 200 members of the London literati, particularly their laureate Colley Cibber.  FTP name this mock-heroic satire by Alexander Pope.
\par Answer:  The }{\b Dunciad}{, in Four Books
\par 
\par 15. Although first studied by Nathaniel Bowditch, they owe their name to a French mathematician who investigated them in the middle of the nineteenth century.  They are produced by an intersection of two sinusoidal curves at ri
ght angles to each other.  If the amplitudes and frequencies of the sinusoidals are the same, but their phases differ, ellipses are formed; however, the patterns become very intricate if frequencies and amplitudes are not equal.  For ten points, name thes
e patterns, most frequently associated with swinging pendulums.
\par Answer: }{\b Lissajous}{ figures
\par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {16. Though she was once quoted as saying, \ldblquote I was brought up to believe that the only thing worth doing was to add to the sum of accurate information in the world,\rdblquote  he
r most famous book was eventually revealed to be based on a hoax.  A pioneer of the use of film to document culture, she and her husband produced such films as }{\i Trance and Dance in Bali}{ and }{\i Learning to Dance in Bali}{
. For ten points, who claimed that lack of sexual repression made adolescence less troublesome in Samoa?
\par Answer:  Margaret }{\b Mead}{
\par 
\par 17. Born with the last name Finkelstein, he earned his degree from the Moscow Institute of Asia and Africa, which specialized in the production of spies.  He rise throug
h the ranks of the KGB as a foreign intelligence officer included a stay in Iraq where he made acquaintance with Saddam Hussein, a possible reason for his support of this leader.  In 1997, he replaced Andrey Kozyrev as foreign minister of Russia.  FTP, na
me this man who became Russia\rquote s prime-minister in the fall of 1998?
\par Answer: Yevgeniy }{\b Primakov}{
\par 
\par 18. This religion encourages cooperation between science and religion.  It claims that there is one God worshipped by all religions, and the messages of all proph
ets have validity.  Its ambitious goals include an end to racial and gender prejudice, universal public education, and a truly international language.  These modern ideals are most likely expressed in this religion because it was founded in 1844.  For ten
 points, what religion has sacred writings written by the Bab, Baha\rquote u\rquote llah, and \lquote Qabdu\rquote l Baha?
\par Answer:  The }{\b Baha\rquote i}{ Faith
\par 
\par 19. It causes the weak bluish white glow in polls of water that shield some nuclear reactors.  It is created by highly energetic charge
d particles that displace electrons in the medium through which they travel, and the subsequent electromagnetic wave in the wake of these particles is similar to the bow wave of a fast boat.  FTP, what is this light produced when charged particles move th
rough a medium faster than the speed of light in that medium?
\par Answer: }{\b Cherenkov}{ or }{\b Cerenkov}{ radiation
\par 
\par 20. The original background of this painting probably resembled that of G\'e9ricault\rquote s }{\i Mounted Officer}{.  Now housed in the Louvre, the foreground depicts a c
hild clambering for his mother, a woman lamenting a dying man, and a Turk riding a fiery steed, to which are chained several prisoners.  Subtitled }{\i Greek Families Awaiting Death or Slavery}{
, name this Delacroix painting inspired by the Greek war of independence against the Turks.
\par Answer:  The }{\b Massacre at Chios}{
\par 
\par 21. This city lies in the al-Gutah oasis along the Barada river. Fashionable addresses today include Marjah Square, but many of its historic buildings were built by a dynasty that ruled from AD 661 to 
750. Modern roads link it with Beirut to the west, Aleppo to the north and Amman to the south, but the most famous road associated with it is the Roman road from Jerusalem, once memorably traveled by Saul of Tarsus. FTP, name this Syrian capital.
\par Answer:  }{\b Damascus}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{22. He appears prominently in Boiardo\rquote s }{\i Orlando Innamorato}{ and Pulci\rquote s }{\i Morgante Maggiore}{.  In Ariosto\rquote s }{\i Orlando Furioso}{
 he joins Orlando and Brandimarte to duel the pagan leaders Agramante and Gardasso at Lipadusa.  Because his family is at war with Charlemagne, he meets his best friend as a dueling opponent.  FTP name this moderate and rational paladin, Roland\rquote 
s closest friend.
\par Answer:  }{\b Olivier}{o}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{23. His education included a Dominican school, Transylvania College and West Point. He left Congress 
to fight in the Mexican War, winning the battle of Buena Vista and becoming a national. His entire presidency was taken up with conflict, both external and with politicians such as vice-president Alexander Stephens. FTP, name this man who died in New Orle
ans in 1889 without ever having asked for his U.S. citizenship back.
\par Answer:  Jefferson }{\b Davis}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{24. According to Native American mythology of the West Coast, one of them created the world by pulling everything out of a bag it was carrying.  According to Nors
e mythology, Odin kept two of them as his spies and messengers, named Thought and Memory.  For ten points, what birds are kept in modern times at the Tower of London for fear that the crown will fall and the empire collapse if they leave?
\par Answer:  }{\b Ravens}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{25. Though this instrument does not seem to have great solo capabilities, it has been used notably in several orchestral works.  In Mendelssohn\rquote s violin concerto it sustains a pitch from the first movement into the second, and in }{\i 
The Sorcerer\rquote s Apprentice}{, by Dukas, it contributes its distinctive wooden sound to the humorous accompaniment.  For ten points, what instrument\rquote 
s saxophone-like sound in its upper register helped contribute to the riot at the premier of Stravinsky\rquote s ballet, }{\i The Rite of Spring}{, in which it plays the opening solo?
\par Answer:  }{\b Bassoon}{\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {26. In his eighties, he wrote a monograph on his friend Claude Monet. Years earlier, as editor of the newspaper }{\i L'Aurore}{
, he had published Emile Zola's article under the headline "J'Accuse." His political 
career included a long rivalry with socialist Jean Juares. FTP, name this two-time French premier, who lost power for the last time in 1920 for allegedly being too soft on the Germans at Versailles.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer: Georges }{\b\fs20 Clemenceau}{\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {27. Like Christian in }{\i Pilgrim\rquote s Progress}{
, this man is beaten by Despair and considers suicide.  He is enslaved by Orgoglio (Or GO lee oh) and later rescued by Prince Arthur.  He is led to the House of Pride by Duessa and learns repentance at the House of Holiness.  FTP name this enemy
 of Archimago and protector of Una Vera Fides \endash  the chief protagonist of Book I of }{\i The Faerie Queen}{.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Redcrosse}{\fs20  Knight
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 \page }{\b\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Questions by Stanford A (Jesse Molesworth, Adam Kemezis, Elliot Mandel, Kenny Easwaran)
\par Bonuses}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 1. For fifteen points each, identify the following not-so-famous philosophers with famous grandsons:
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {15.  The grandfather of the composer Felix Mendelssohn, who helped introduce European Jews to German culture, and tried to liberalize the Jewish community while fighting anti-Semitism:
\par Answer:  }{\b Moses}{ Mendelssohn
\par 15.  The man whose poems \ldblquote The Botanical Garden\rdblquote  and \ldblquote The Temple of Nature\rdblquote  helped establish his reputation as a poet, and also foreshadowed many parts of his grandson\rquote s theory of evolution:
\par Answer:  }{\b Erasmus Darwin}{\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 2. Identify the following satellites of Jupiter based on astronomical information for 10 points each.  You will get 5 points if you need a hint based on the name of the satellite.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {1. 10. Discovered by Galileo in 1610, it is the largest satellite of Jupiter.
\par       5. This beautiful son of the king of Troy was carried of by Zeus to become a cupbearer to the Gods.
\par Answer: }{\b Ganymede}{
\par 2. 10. The innermost of the large satellites, it is one of the few objects in the solar system definitely known to have active volcanoes.
\par       5. This daughter of Inachus was changed into a heifer by Zeus to avoid Hera\rquote s jealousy; but this didn\rquote t save her from the gadfly.
\par Answer: }{\b Io}{\ul 
\par }{3. 10. The only non-Galilean satellite seen closely by the Voyager missions, this satellite discovered by Barnard in 1892 is an irregular, potato-shaped object.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \fs32\cgrid {\fs20       5. This Naiad was the nurse of Zeus at the time when the young God had to be protected from Chronos.  She had a bull\rquote s horn that could supply food and drink in abundance.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer: }{\b Amalthea}{
\par 
\par 3. Identify these comic servants in Shakespeare\rquote s plays FTP each.
\par 1. Olivia\rquote s clown in }{\i Twelfth Night}{, he sings the song \ldblquote O mistress mine!\rdblquote 
\par Answer:  }{\b Feste}{
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 2. FFP each name the drunken butler and the drunken jester in }{\i\fs20 The Tempest}{\fs20  who plot with Caliban to overthrow Prospero.
\par Answers:  }{\b\fs20 Stephano}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Trinculo}{\fs20 
\par 3. Beaten at various times, they are the identical twin servants of the two Antipholuses.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer:  }{\b Dromio}{ (of Ephesus and Syracuse)
\par 
\par 4. For ten points each, name these related works of music:
\par 1.  A posthumously published string quartet by Franz Schubert whose second movement is a set of variations on an earlier song of his by the same name.
\par Answer:  }{\b Death and the Maiden}{ or Der }{\b\ul Tod und das Maedchen}{
\par 2.  An 1894 tone poem by Richard Strauss, depicting the hopes and fears of a dying artist.
\par Answer:  }{\b Death and Transfiguration}{ or }{\b\ul Tod und Verkldrung}{
\par 3.  In 1909, Sergei Rachmaninoff wrote this symphonic poem based on a painting by Bocklin.
\par Answer: The }{\b Isle of the Dead}{
\par 
\par 5. Tiffani-Amber Theissen isn\rquote t the only }{\i Saved by the Bell}{ veteran to find success since that show\rquote s break-up.  
\par 15. Zach Morris is no longer scamming Mr. Belding; now he\rquote s helping manage his brother\rquote s software company.  FFP each name this actor, his new show on the WB, and his character\rquote s name on the new show.
\par Answer:  Marc-Paul }{\b\ul Gosselaer}{, }{\b Hyperion Bay}{, }{\b Dennis Sweeney}{ (}{\b either}{ name acceptable)
\par 15. A.C. Slater is no longer trying to one-up Zach; now he\rquote s chasing down rad stunt-bike bandits.  FFP each name this actor, his show on USA, and his character\rquote s name.
\par Answer:  Mario }{\b Lopez}{, }{\b Pac}{ific }{\b Blue}{, }{\b Bobby Cruz}{ (}{\b either}{ name acceptable)
\par 
\par 6. For nearly two weeks during the Battle of the Bulge, one whole American division held out while encircled in the Ardennes town of Bastogne. 
\par 10. First, FTP, name the division.
\par Answer: The }{\b 101st Airborne}{ (prompt on \ldblquote Screaming Eagles\rdblquote )
\par 20.  Shortly before Bastogne was relieved, the American commander answered a German demand for his surrender with only one word. Identify, F15P, the American commander at Bastogne, and, FFP, the one word with which he rejected the demand.
\par Answers: Brig. Gen. Anthony }{\b McAuliffe}{ (15 points), }{\b Nuts}{ (5 points)
\par }{\ul 
\par }{7. Identify these marginal yet central characters in James Joyce\rquote s }{\i Ulysses}{ FTP each.
\par 1. The novel begins with a meeting between Stephen Daedalus and this \ldblquote stately, plump\rdblquote  man, whose real-life counterpart was Oliver St. John Gogarty.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Buck Mulligan}{\fs20  (accept }{\b\fs20 either}{\fs20  name)
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {2. On Sandymount Strand, Leopold Bloom masturbates at the sight of this \ldblquote winsome\rdblquote  Irish lass, whose }{\i Odyssey}{ counterpart is Nausikaa.
\par Answer:  }{\b Gerty McDowell}{ (accept }{\b either}{ name)
\par 3. He is the rake who departs the Ormond hotel for an adulterous affair with Molly Bloom.
\par Answer:  }{\b Blazes Boylan}{ (accept }{\b either}{ name)
\par 
\par 8. Answer the following questions about the history of the Holy Roman Empire, for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 15. First, name the Swabian dynasty founded by Conrad III in 1138 that ruled until 1254, with a brief break when a member of the rival Welf dynasty was on the throne.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer:  }{\b Hohenstaufen}{ or }{\b Staufer}{
\par 15. Under the Habsburg emperors, three of the seven imperial electors were prince-archbishops of cities in the Rhineland. FFPE, name the three cities, in ancient times principal cities of Roman Germany.
\par Answers: }{\b Koln}{ or }{\b Cologne}{\ul ;}{ }{\b Trier}{ or }{\b Treves}{; }{\b Mainz}{
\par 
\par 9. Please identify the following snakes for ten points each.
\par 1. This appropriately named family of blind snakes includes some of the smallest and thinnest members of the suborder that range between 4 and 7 inches in length.
\par Answer: }{\b Thread}{ snakes or }{\b slender blind}{ snakes or }{\b Leptotyphlopidae}{
\par 2. A true giant in comparison with the thread snakes, this is the world\rquote s largest venomous snake.  Specimen 5.6 meters long have been reported.
\par Answer: }{\b King cobra}{ or }{\b hamadryad}{ or }{\b Ophiophagus hannah}{
\par 3. While king cobra may be the largest venomous snake, this Australian cousin of his is one of the deadliest.  This Queensland resident may bite several times in quick succession, often without warning, and its venom kills in minutes.
\par Answer: }{\b Taipan}{\ul  }{or }{\b Oxyuranus scutellatus}{
\par 
\par 10. Answer the following questions about linear algebra for ten points apiece.
\par 1. This is a mapping between vector spaces which identifies a unique vector in the domain space with each vector in the range space.  Moreover, the image of the sum of any two vectors in the firs
t space is the sum of their images, and the image of a scalar multiple of any vector in the first space is the same scalar multiple of the image. 
\par Answer:  }{\b linear transformation}{
\par 2. This is defined as the minimum number of vectors necessary to describe a basis for a vector space.
\par Answer: }{\b dimension}{
\par 3. This type of matrix is formed by replacing each term in a matrix by its cofactor and then transposing the resulting matrix.
\par Answer: }{\b adjoint}{
\par 
\par 11. Please answer the following questions about the escalating political crisis in Angola for the stated number of points.
\par 5.  From what country did Angola gain independence in 1975 after a 14-year war that left the country in economical ruin?
\par Answer: }{\b Portugal}{
\par 10.  What rebel group appears to have broken the 1994 cease fire?
\par Answer: }{\b UNITA}{ or the }{\b National Union for the Total Independence of Angola}{
\par 10/15. Ten points for one or 15 for both, name the current President of Angola and the leader of UNITA.
\par Answers: Jose Eduardo dos }{\b Santos}{ and Jonas }{\b Savimbi}{\ul 
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\ul 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {12. Identify these terms important in the practice of bookbinding FTP each.
\par 1. The device placed at the end of a book containing the title, the printer\rquote s name, and the date and place of printing.
\par Answer:  }{\b colophon}{
\par 2. A collection of leaves bound together as a group.
\par Answer:  }{\b quire}{ or }{\b gathering}{
\par 3. Usually consisting of a letter and a number, when placed at the bottom of a page it indicates the quire and the position within the quire of the page.
\par Answer:  }{\b signature}{
\par 
\par 13. For 10 points each, identify the following philosophers of science:
\par 1.  The author of }{\i The Open Society and its Enemies}{, who claimed to have solved the problem of induction by introducing the criterion of falsifiability into scientific theories.
\par Answer:  Karl }{\b Popper}{
\par 2.  The successor of Popper whose 1962 book, }{\i The Structure of Scientific Revolutions}{,  introduced the word \ldblquote paradigm\rdblquote  into common usage, and claimed that science is a dogmatic system.
\par Answer:  Thomas }{\b Kuhn}{
\par 3.  Popper\rquote s Hungarian student who challenged Kuhn\rquote s idea of a field being dominated by one paradigm at a time, instead saying that there are multiple \ldblquote research programmes\rdblquote  at work in all fields at most times.
\par Answer:  Imre }{\b Lakatos}{ (LA-ka-tosh)
\par 
\par 14. Identify these lanthanide elements for ten points apiece
\par 1. Discovered by Marignac and Boisbaudran in the 1880\rquote s and named for a Finnish chemist, this element\rquote s claim to fame lies in Kammerlingh Onnes\rquote  use of its sulfate to produce temperatures below 1K.
\par Answer: }{\b Gadolinium}{
\par 2. Discovered in 1907 by Welsbach and Urbain, this last lanthanide was called cassiopeium in Germany until the 1950\rquote s since its name is so closely related to Urbain\rquote s native city, Paris.
\par Answer: }{\b Lutetium}{
\par 3. The most abundant lanthanide, this element was named after the largest asteroid in the solar system, which was discovered by Piazzi (and rediscovered on the basis of Gauss\rquote  calculations) shortly before Berzelius discovered this element in 1803.

\par Answer: }{\b Cerium}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{15. Name the following men who figured in the end of British rule in southern Africa, FTPE.
\par 1. This soldier of the Boer War was Prime Minister of the Union of South Africa from 1919 to 1924 and again from 1933 to 1948. He wrung numerous concessions from the British, but was permanently at odds with militant nationalists.
\par Answer: Jan Christian }{\b Smuts}{
\par 2. A tax on Asian residents of Natal was repealed in 1914 largely due to nonviolent protests led by this British-trained barrister.
\par Answer: Mohandas K. }{\b Gandhi}{
\par 3. This first native-born Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia broke with the Commonwealth in 1965, and headed a white supremacist regime until 1979.
\par Answer: Ian }{\b Smith}{
\par 
\par 16. Distinguish between these similarly named knights of Arthurian legend FTP each.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 1. Ever following the Questing Beast, he kills King Lot of Orkney\emdash for which he is later slain by Gawain.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer:  King }{\b Pellinore}{
\par 2. Wounded by Balin\rquote s \ldblquote Dolorous Stroke\rdblquote , he is healed by his great-grandson Galahad during the Grail quest.
\par Answer:  King }{\b Pellam}{
\par 3. The lover of Etarre, he later marries Nimue, the Lady of the Lake.  Tennyson includes his story in }{\i Idylls of the King}{.
\par Answer:  }{\b Pelleas}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{17. Answer the following questions about quantum mechanics.
\par 5. For five points, the time-independent form of what equation states that energy is the eigenvalue and the wave function is the eigenfunction of the Hamiltonian operator?
\par Answer: }{\b Schrodinger}{ equation
\par 10.  FTP, in Dirac\rquote s operator notation, this is the Hermitian adjoint of the ket.
\par Answer: }{\b Bra}{ \tab (<bra|ket> :\} )
\par 10/15. 10 points for one or 15 for both, what are the apocalyptic names given to the ladder operators \lquote a\rquote  and \lquote a dagger\rquote ?
\par Answers: }{\b Annihilation}{ and }{\b creation}{, or }{\b lowering}{ and }{\b raising}{
\par 
\par 18. Identify the following Romans, who are known chiefly for their association with Cicero, for the stated number of points.
\par 5. Cicero's principal action as consul was to suppress a revolutionary conspiracy by this dissolute patrician.
\par Answer:  }{\b Catiline}{ or Lucius Sergius }{\b Catilina}{
\par 10. Cicero accused this man at various times of incest and of profaning a religious rite while dressed as a woman. However, he used bribery and thugs to gain first his own acquittal and later Cicero's banishment.
\par Answer:  Publius }{\b Clodius}{ Pulcher
\par 15. This man was the leading orator in Rome until Cicero came along.  He unsuccessfully defended Gaius Verres when Cicero prosecuted him for corrupt administration of Sicily.
\par Answer:  Quintus }{\b Hortensius}{ Hortalus
\par 
\par 19. Identify these Wallace Stevens poems from their conceits FTP each.
\par 1. This poem uses the body of Susannah from the }{\i Apocrypha}{ to differentiate between innocent beauty and the lustful gaze of the perceiver.
\par Answer:  }{\b Peter Quince at the Clavier}{
\par 2. A woman walks by the sea on a summer evening.  By singing, she transforms herself into a perceiving subject.
\par Answer:  The }{\b Idea of Order at Key West}{
\par 3. Reflections in a muddy pond illustrate the impossibility of imagining the absence of imagination.
\par Answer:  The }{\b Plain Sense of Things}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 20. Zeus gave birth to several children out of his own body, rather than a woman\rquote s.  For the stated number of points, identify the following individuals involved in these births:
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {5. The goddess who sprung out of his head fully armed when Hephaestus split it open to relieve a headache.
\par Answer:  }{\b Athena}{
\par 10. Athena\rquote s mother, whom he swallowed when she was pregnant to ensure that she would not give birth to the son who was destined to overthrow him.
\par Answer:  }{\b Metis}{
\par 5. The god who was born out of Zeus\rquote  hip.
\par Answer:  }{\b Dionysus}{
\par 10. The mother of Dionysus, who was consumed in flames before she could give birth because she looked on Zeus in his divine splendor.
\par Answer:  }{\b Semele}{
\par 
\par 21. Although traditionally the greatest of the Saxon kings of England, Alfred wasn't actually king of all England. He was king of Wessex, one of numerous kingdoms in Anglo-Saxon England. Traditionally, there are six others.  Name them FFPE.
\par Answers: }{\b Kent}{, }{\b East Anglia}{, }{\b Essex}{, }{\b Sussex}{, }{\b Mercia}{ and }{\b Northumbria}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{22. Give the number of the following interstate highways, given their approximate start and end points and one city in between, FTPE.
\par 1.  Port Huron, Mich., Minneapolis, Minn., Billings, Mont.
\par Answer: Interstate }{\b 94}{
\par 2.  Florence, S.C., Birmingham, Ala., Pecos, Tex.
\par Answer: Interstate }{\b 20}{
\par 3.  Sault Sainte Marie, Mich., Cincinnati, Ohio, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.
\par Answer: Interstate }{\b 75}{
\par 
\par 23. Living from 763 to 809, he served as caliph of Baghdad.
\par 10. FTP name this ruler who figures in many of the }{\i Arabian Nights}{.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer:  }{\b\fs20 Harun Ar-Rashid}{\fs20  (accept }{\b\fs20 either}{\fs20  name)
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {20. FTP each name both the vizier and the chief executioner of Harun Ar-Rashid, who would accompany him when he walked about the streets of Baghdad disguised.
\par Answers:  }{\b Jaffar}{ and }{\b Mesrour}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{24. Given sets of three neighboring countries, list them in order of how long their coastlines are (excluding lakes), from shortest to longest, FFPE.
\par 15.  Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania
\par Answer: }{\b Uga., Ken., Tan.}{
\par 15. Burma, Thailand, Cambodia
\par Answer: }{\b Cam., Bur., Thai.}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 25. For the stated number of points, name the composers of symphonies named after the following cities:
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {5. London and Paris
\par Answer:  Frans Josef }{\b Haydn}{
\par 10. Prague
\par Answer:  Wolfgang Amadeus }{\b Mozart}{
\par 15. Leningrad
\par Answer:  Dmitri }{\b Shostakovich}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{26. For ten points each, identify the following popular eastern cults in the late Roman Empire:
\par 1.  This cult and was centered on the worship of a minor deity of light from Hinduism and Zoroastrianism, who was very often depicted sacrificing a bull.  His miraculous birth from a stone was always celebrated on December 25.
\par Answer:  }{\b Mithraism}{
\par 2.  A synthesis of several religions, including Zoroastrianism and Buddhism , it was for a time the religion of Augustine.  It lasted as late as the thirteenth century, when it still had followers in China, as well
 as perhaps the Albigensian heretics in Southern France.
\par Answer:  }{\b Manichaeism}{
\par 3.  The only major Roman cult to survive to the present, its god was patterned on both the Hebrew JHVH and Zoroastrian Ahura Mazda, and like Mithraism, celebrated the miraculous birth of its central figure on December 25.
\par Answer:  }{\b Christianity}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{27. Identify these schools of thought from their members FTP each.  All are named after geographical locations.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs20\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 1.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls6\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls6\adjustright {Moritz Schlick, Rudolf Carnap
\par }\pard \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {Answer:  }{\b Vienna Circle}{\ul 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs20\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 2.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls6\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls6\adjustright {Merbert Marcuse, Theodor
 Adorno, Walter Benjamin
\par }\pard \widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {Answer:  }{\b Frankfurt}{ School
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\fs20\cgrid \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 3.\tab}}\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls6\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ls6\adjustright {
Hans Robert Jauss (YAUSS), Wolfgang Iser (EE sur)
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Answer:  }{\b Konstanz}{ School
\par 
\par 28. Identify the following French Gothic churches FTP each.
\par 1. Built in the 12}{\super th}{ century but not consecrated until 1260, its King\rquote s Portal is a highlight.  Henry Adams would point to it as the pinnacle of Gothic energy.
\par Answer:  }{\b Chartes}{ cathedral
\par 2. French kings were crowned in this cathedral, whose west front and prominent rose window are most famous.
\par Answer:  }{\b Reims}{ cathedral
\par 3. Though this abbey originates from the 7}{\super th}{ century, it was converted to the Gothic style by Abbot Suger in 1137.  
\par Answer:  }{\b St. Denis}{
\par }}