{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff5\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f384\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f385\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f387\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f388\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f389\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cf1 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}}
{\info{\title Tossups by Swarthmore (Peter Austin, Ed Cohn, Arcadia Falcone, Josh Miller)}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator The Weiner Family}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min5}{\revtim\yr2000\mo7\dy11\hr6\min32}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}
{\nofwords4370}{\nofchars24914}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws30596}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrestart\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\colsx0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\b\f4\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Swarthmore (Peter Austin, Ed Cohn, Arcadia Falcone, Josh Miller)
\par Tossups}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 1. The pla
y opens with the main character being ferried by Charon across the river Styx.  Time becomes nonlinear as incidents in the protagonist's life are reiterated, from his days as an undergraduate studying classics at Cambridge to his unrequited love for his c
lassmate Moses Jackson to his encounter with a post-Reading (\ldblquote redding\rdblquote ) Oscar Wilde.  FTP, name this work about the poet A. E. Housman, Tom Stoppard's most recent play.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f4\fs20 Invention of Love}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 2. He was first elected to the Senate in 1936, but resign
ed several years later to fight in World War II; in 1946, he made a comeback by unseating Senator David Walsh.  He nominated Dwight Eisenhower for president in 1952 and became chairman of his campaign, but was unseated nonetheless by John F. Kennedy.  He 
spent the bulk of the next ten years as UN ambassador and ambassador to South Vietnam, and was Richard Nixon\rquote s running-mate in 1960.  FTP, name this Massachusetts politician, the grandson and namesake of another senator.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: Henry Cabot }{\b\f4\fs20 Lodge}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 3. Many t
hink he is Jonathan Buttall, the son of a wealthy London hardware storeowner.  Behind him is a dark sky that matches his thin black hair but contrasts with his pale face.  He stands erect with his left foot forward and his left hand in his pocket.  In his
 right hand is a large black hat with a white plume in it.  For ten points, identify this title figure of a late 18th century portrait by Thomas Gainsborough.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Blue Boy}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cf1 {\fs20\cf0 4. The Alajskij Chrebet mountains dominate the south this country, whose largest
 lake is the saltwater Ozero Issyk-Kul' in the northeast.  The only flatlands of this country are located in the extreme north, through which tributaries of the Chu River flow.  Bordered on the east by China, on the north by Kazakhstan, on the west by Uzb
ekistan and on the south by Tajikistan, it is a former Soviet republic whose capital was once called Frunze.  For ten points, name this country, whose major cities include Osh, Tokmak, Karakol, and the capital, Bishkek.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Kyrgyzstan}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 5. Unlike compounds of its type with more carbons, it undergoes a severe degree of angular and torsional strain, making it unstable.  First synthesized by allowing 1,3-Dibromopropane to react with sodium, its carbon framework is held together by what are 
called "banana bonds."  Derivatives of it can also by synthesized by allowing an alkene to react with a carbene.  For ten points, name this simplest of the cycloalkanes.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 cyclopropane}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. Two of its leaders, David Bradford and John Mitchell, were con
victed of treason, but each received a presidential pardon.  Among its causes were the predominance of absentee landlords, a lack of protection from Indians, and the absence of federal courts; the revolt began when a mob of farmers told a local tax collec
t
or to leave the state, leading to an armed confrontation.  When Governor Thomas Mifflin refused to become involved,  President Washington called up 13,000 militiamen to end the uprising.  FTP, name this 1794 revolt that erupted in Washington County, Penns
ylvania, to protest a new excise tax on distilleries.
\par Answer: the }{\b\f4\fs20 Whiskey Rebellion}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 7. She was known as Peter as a child, but later called herself John after her great-grandfather.  Her literary output includes poems, songs, and novels, including the award-winning 1926}{\i\f4\fs20  Adam's Breed}{\f4\fs20 
.  She is best known, however, for a later novel, which provoked widespread scandal and was banned in Britain due to its portrayal of a lesbian love affair.  FTP, name this author of }{\i\f4\fs20 The Well of Loneliness}{\f4\fs20 .
\par Answer: Radclyffe }{\b\f4\fs20 Hall }{\f4\fs20 or Marguerite }{\b\f4\fs20 Radclyffe-Hall}{\f4\fs20  or John }{\b\f4\fs20 Hall}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 8. Published under the pseudonym Johaness de Silentio, this work is believed by analysts to have two distinct themes.  First is the "teleological suspension of the ethical," an example of which is God\rquote 
s order that Abraham kill Isaac.  From there the author uses the Abraham/Isaac story to come to terms with the end of his love affair with Regine Olsen.  The overall story, then, concerns a contrast between the \ldblquote tragic hero\rdblquote  and the 
\ldblquote knight of faith.\rdblquote   FTP, name this 1843 philosophical work by Soren Kierkegaard. \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 Fear and Trembling}{\f4\fs20  
\par 
\par 9. "There's this thing called being so open-minded your brains drop out."  So writes this biologist, the main developer of the paradigm that the replicator, whethe
r genetic or cultural, is the fundamental unit of evolution.  FTP, name this Oxford professor, author of }{\i\f4\fs20 The Blind Watchmaker}{\f4\fs20  and }{\i\f4\fs20 The Selfish Gene}{\f4\fs20 
, who has added the word "meme" (pronounced "meem") to the English language.
\par Answer: Richard }{\b\f4\fs20 Dawkins}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 10. It b
egan as one mansion, but later expanded into 13 buildings that included a day nursery, a gymnasium, a recreation room, a music school, a theatre, and a classroom that taught English to recent immigrants.  It was paid for entirely by private contributions,
 and was cofounded in 1889 by Ellen Starr and the future chairperson of the Woman\rquote s Peace Party.  For ten points, identify this social settlement in Chicago, run by Jane Addams.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Hull House}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20 11. Accidentally discovered by satellites monitoring thermo
nuclear explosions on Earth, they average about one per day and last for only a few seconds.  Their placement in the sky is spherically symmetric and they do not go below a certain flux, indicating that there is a distance beyond which they do not appear.
  For ten points, name these enigmatic interstellar phenomena named for the rays that compose them.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Gamma-ray Bursters}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 12. Among her lesser-known works are }{\i\f4\fs20 The Pearl of Orr\rquote s Island}{\f4\fs20  and }{\i\f4\fs20 Old Town Folks}{\f4\fs20 , both of which were based on the childhood memories of her husband, Calvin.  When her friend Lady Byron died and Byron
\rquote s former mistress wrote a book bashing her, she replied with the work }{\i\f4\fs20 Lady Byron Vindicated}{\f4\fs20 .  She is better known, however, for an early novel.  FTP, name this woman, the daughter of a
 famous evangelical preacher and the author of }{\i\f4\fs20 Uncle Tom\rquote s Cabin}{\f4\fs20 .
\par Answer: Harriet Beecher }{\b\f4\fs20 Stowe}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 13. Lady Charlotte Elizabeth Guest wrote its first English translation in 1839, and she gave it its popular title by adopting a variation of the collective nam
e of its first four stories.  It is preserved in two manuscripts, the Red Book of Hergest and the older White Book of Rhyddrech.  The first four tales are about Prince Pryderi, its next four are unrelated stories, and it concludes with three Arthurian rom
ances. For ten points, identify this collection of 11th to 13th century Welsh prose tales.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Mabinogion}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 14. The horns play his sad theme, and he is the principal attraction at a carnival in a public square in Saint Petersburg.  He is in love with a b
allerina who hates him and loves a handsomely attired Moor.  When he interrupts the Moors flirting, the Moor kills him, and the crowd erupts in anger, quieted only when a policeman reminds everyone that the victim is, after all, only a puppet.  For ten po
ints, identify this title character, first danced by Waslaw Nijinsky, in a 1911 ballet by Igor Stravinsky.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Petrouchka}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 15. In this period, marine life rebounded a
fter a mass extinction that ended the previous period.  The northern continents finally coalesced after being fairly close together earlier.  Most marine genera were widely distributed, as the tropical sea was uninterrupted by land barriers.  Most, signif
icantly, however, the first land animals, millipedes and scorpions, appeared.  For ten points, name this period, lasting from 440 to 400 million years ago, preceding the Devonian period and succeeding the Ordovician period.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Silurian}{\f4\fs20  period
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 16. Born
 in Hampden, Maine, in 1820, she founded a school for girls in Boston, and she served as its superintendent for 15 years.  During the Civil War she served in the Union army as superintendent for women nurses, and her writings include the 1829 book }{
\i\cf0 The Garland of Flora}{\cf0 
 and an 1845 book about Massachusettss prisons.  For ten points, identify this woman who, in 1843, successfully petitioned the Massachusetts state legislature to reform its prison system and helped build or enlarge 32 mental hospitals on three continents.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: Dorothea }{\b\f4\fs20 Dix}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 17. Its name literally means \ldblquote banana\rdblquote , appropriate considering that it was controlled by a banana company and witnessed a 1928 strike by banana workers.  Located near an all-but-impenetrable mountain range, it was founded 
by Arcadio Jose Buendia and Ursula, and its creator used Faulkner\rquote s Yoknapatawpha County and his own Anacataca as models.  FTP, name this South American city described in }{\i\f4\fs20 One Hundred Years of Solitude}{\f4\fs20 
 and other works by Gabriel Garcia-Marquez. 
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Macondo}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 
18. The future Byzantine Emporer Romanus II was at one time betrothed to his niece Hedwig, and his son married Theophano, who was either the daughter of the same Romanus II or the niece of John Tzimices.  The son of Henry I, Duke of Saxony, he defeat
ed the Magyars at the Battle of Lech in 955 and was crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 962.  For ten points, name this founder of the dynasty that bears his name.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Otto I}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20 19. The current theory is that stars form from the collapse of molecular clouds. H
owever, not just any molecular cloud will collapse.  The mass at which a given molecular cloud will collapse within a radius R or the density at which a cloud will collapse are both known by names that commemorate the same person, who also corrected a sma
ll error in Rayleigh\rquote s radiation law. For ten points, name either the mass or the density at which a molecular cloud will begin to collapse.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Jeans Mass}{\f4\fs20  or }{\b\f4\fs20 Jeans Density}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20 20. This author of works like }{\i\f4\fs20 In Pursuit of the English}{\f4\fs20  and}{\i\f4\fs20  This Was the Old Chief\rquote s Country}{\f4\fs20 
 was born in Iran in 1919 to British parents and moved to Zimbabwe at the age of 6.  Largely self-educated, she moved to England and joined a Communist literary group, but became disillusioned and eventually left the Party.  FTP, name this author of The }
{\i\f4\fs20 Children of Violence}{\f4\fs20  series, and }{\i\f4\fs20 The Golden Notebook}{\f4\fs20 .
\par Answer: Doris }{\b\f4\fs20 Lessing}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 21. He was the only one of his parents\rquote  9 children who lived to adulthood, and he had an affair with George Eliot.  In 1851, he published }{\i\f4\fs20 Social Statistics}{\f4\fs20  which argued
 for the inevitability of human progress, and in 1855 he wrote }{\i\f4\fs20 Principles of Psychology}{\f4\fs20  .  Five years later, he tried to integrate all existing fields of knowledge in his }{\i\f4\fs20 A System of Synthetic Philosophy}{\f4\fs20 
, arguing that society had evolved from a simple to a more complex state.  For ten points, identify this British social scientist who coined the phrase \ldblquote survival of the fittest.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: Herbert }{\b\f4\fs20 Spencer}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 22. Among its practitioners were William Jenney and Dankmar Adler; among its best-known examples is the Monadnock Building.  Known at the time as the \ldblquote commercial school,
\rdblquote  it was marked by simplicity, structural regularity, and a concern for integrating the latest technological advances with the needs of modern commercial life, most notably in the development 
of sky scrapers.  FTP, identify this turn-of-the-century school of architecture, whose work was best exemplified by Louis Sullivan.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Chicago School}{\f4\fs20  of Architecture
\par 
\par 23. Premiered at Yale in 1974, it may be the only musical staged in a swimming pool.
 Cast members included Christopher Durang, Sigourney Weaver, and Meryl Streep.  Songs by Stephen Sondheim punctuate this story, inspired by a Greek comedy, of a duel between Shakespeare and Shaw to determine who is the best playwright.  FTP, name this wor
k, based on a play by Aristophanes and featuring a chorus of amphibious creatures.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f4\fs20 Frogs}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 24. Her son Jonah has used her fifteen minutes of fame to transform his career: he has recently written for }{\i\f4\fs20 The New Yorker}{\f4\fs20 , become a contributing editor at the }{\i\f4\fs20 National Review}{\f4\fs20 
, and appeared on dozens of TV political chat shows.  This woman, however, has been in the limelight before: in the 1970s, she was the agent of Judy Chavez Taylor, a call-girl hired by the CIA to keep co
mpany with defected Soviet diplomat Arkady Shevchenko; before that, she was a Nixon spy on a George McGovern campaign plane.  FTP, name the literary agent who told Linda Tripp to tape her conversations with Monica Lewinsky.
\par Answer: Lucianne }{\b\f4\fs20 Goldberg}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 25. N
othing ever happens in North Dormer.  At least, so it seems to Charity Royall, until one day a young stranger, Lucius Haney, arrives from the world outside.  Soon an attraction develops between the two, but Haney abandons Charity after she becomes pregnan
t.  FTP, name this novel, referred to by its author as "the hot Ethan" because of its similarities to her earlier work, }{\i\f4\fs20 Ethan Frome}{\f4\fs20 .
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Summer}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 26. Born in 1788, he left home when his mother, a popular novelist, pushed him down a flight of stars.  He taught at Berlin and Jena, and then settled down in Frankfurt with his pet poodle who biographers now think may have been a really ugly cat.  His ph
i
losophy rejects idealism and combines the thought of Meister Ekhart and Jakob Bohme, and he had a signet ring made of the Sphinx tossing itself into the abyss because he believed he had solved all the riddles in the universe.  For ten points, identify thi
s philosopher who wrote }{\i\f4\fs20 The World as Will and Idea}{\f4\fs20 .
\par Answer: Arthur }{\b\f4\fs20 Schopenhauer}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 27. His 1983 work, }{\i\f4\fs20 DNA Suites}{\f4\fs20 , assigned a particular tone to each nucleotide to create musical compositions based on genes.  He is better known in scientific circles, however, 
for his work on the involvement of membranes in the origin of life.  FTP, name this scientist who proved that macromolecules can become enclosed in liposomes under prebiotic conditions.
\par Answer: David }{\b\f4\fs20 Deamer}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 28. It was originally founded as a colony of the
 Greek island of Corcyra, and disputes with Corcyra set off the most devastating phase of the Peloponesian War.  In Byzantine times, it was the western terminus of the Via Aegenita, which started in Constantinople and ran through Thessalonica. As such, it
 was the landing point of Robert Guiscard's 1081 invasion of the Byzantine Empire.  For ten points, name this city, currently Albania's primary port city on the southeastern shore of the Adriatic.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Durres}{\f4\fs20  or }{\b\f4\fs20 Epidamnus}{\f4\fs20  or }{\b\f4\fs20 Dyrrachium}{\f4\fs20  or }{\b\f4\fs20 Durazzo}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 29. The father was arrested and imprisoned in 1531 when he quarreled with the Duke of Suffolk, and he was later charged with treason but regained Henry VIII\rquote 
s favor.  Today, however, he is remembered as a writer, not a courtier.  The son was a conspirator who he
lped put Jane Grey on the throne and objected to the marriage of Mary I and Philip II of Spain.  For ten points, name these men, one who is credited with introducing the sonnet into English and the other who led a 1554 eponymous revolt against Mary I.

\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20\ul Thomas Wyatt}{\f4\fs20  (Prompt if just Wyatt is given.)
\par \page }{\b\f4\fs20 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Swarthmore (Peter Austin, Ed Cohn, Arcadia Falcone, Josh Miller)
\par Bonuses}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 1. Given some members of an insect order, identify it FTP each.
\par 1. Beetles and weevils
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 coleoptera}{\f4\fs20 
\par 2. Wasps, bees, and ants
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 hymenoptera}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3. Termites
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 isoptera 
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 2. Identify the following about the Battle of Kursk FTPE.
\par 1. Identify the code name that the Germans gave the Kursk offensive.
\par Answer:  Operation }{\b\f4\fs20 Zitadelle}{\f4\fs20  or Operation }{\b\f4\fs20 Citadel}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }{\f4\fs20 2. The southern thrust was stopped by the Soviets in this massive tank battle.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 Prokhorovko}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3. The northern thrust was stopped here, a place nicknamed "Little Stalingrad."
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 Ponyri}{\f4\fs20  Station
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 3. Yay! More Nobel Prize winning economists! Ten points each!
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 1. From 1936 to 1938, this Dutch statistician served as economic advisor to the League of Nations Secretariat.  He shared the Nobel in 1969 with Ragnar Frisch for his work in econometrics.

\par Answer: Jan }{\b\f4\fs20 Tinbergen}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 2. This American worked as a columnist for }{\i\cf0 Newsweek}{\cf0 
, a consultant for the Rand Corporation, and an advisor to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. He won the 1970 Nobel and developed formulae that relate GNP to levels of employment.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: Paul }{\b\f4\fs20 Samuelson}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3. In his book }{\i\f4\fs20 The Road to Serfdom}{\f4\fs20 , this Austrian-born economist argued that governments should not try to control inflation or other economic factors.  He shared the Nobel Prize in 1974 with Gunnar Myrdal.
\par Answer: Friedrich August von }{\b\f4\fs20 Hayek}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20 4. Identify these members of the Bloomsbury Circle, 5-10-15.
\par 5. Her home gave the Circle its name; she and her husband set up the Hogarth Press which published most of her works.  Her novels include }{\i\f4\fs20 The Waves }{\f4\fs20 and}{\i\f4\fs20  Orlando}{\f4\fs20 .
\par Answer: Virginia }{\b\f4\fs20 Woolf}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }{\f4\fs20 10. This author of }{\i\f4\fs20 Eminent Victorians}{\f4\fs20   was a conscientious objector during WWI.  He carried on a long relationship with Dora Carrington, who committed suicide after his death from cancer.
\par Answer: Lytton }{\b\f4\fs20 Strachey}{\f4\fs20  (STRAY-kee)
\par 15. The title character of}{\i\f4\fs20  Orlando}{\f4\fs20  was based on her; as an author, she is remembered for her garden writings and her novel }{\i\f4\fs20 The Edwardians}{\f4\fs20 .
\par Answer: Vita }{\b\f4\fs20 Sackville-West}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 5. Identify the following types of magnetism FTPE:
\par 1. This type of magnetism is exhibited by most elements and some compounds, and involves materials weakly attracted by a str
ong magnet; it is especially strong in iron, palladium, and platinum, and results when unpaired electrons in incomplete inner shells spin like tops.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 paramagnetism}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4\fs20 2. This type of magnetism is characteristic of materials that line up at right angles
 to a non uniform magnetic field and that partly expel from their interior the magnetic field in which they are placed. It is exhibited by all substances as the strong external magnetic field speeds up or slows down according to Lenz's Law.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 diamagnetism}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4\fs20 
3. In this type of magnetism, adjacent ions spontaneously align themselves into opposite arrangements so that the substance exhibits almost no gross external magnetism, effectively functioning as small magnets. It is especially known as a phen
omenon exhibited by manganese oxides, and occurs at relatively low temperatures.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 antiferromagnetism}{\f4\fs20  (do not prompt on ferromagnetism)
\par 
\par 6. Identify these works by Dmitri Shostakovich based on literature FTP each.
\par 1. This opera was based on a short story by Leskov, which in turn was based on a Shakespearean tragedy.
\par Answer: A }{\b\f4\fs20 Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District}{\f4\fs20  or A }{\b\f4\fs20 Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk}{\f4\fs20  or }{\b\f4\fs20 Katerina Ismailova}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cf1 {\fs20\cf0 2. This symphony was based on a poem by Yevgeny Yevtushenko about a massacre of Jews in Kiev.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Babi Yar}{\f4\fs20  or the Symphony No. }{\b\f4\fs20 13}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3. This opera was based on a famous short story by Gogol.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f4\fs20 Nose}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 7. Identify the following bandits killed by Theseus on the road between Troezen and Athens FTPE:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 
1. This brigand asked travelers for help tying two pine trees together, then tied one arm of each passerby to each of the trees once the trees were bent; he then left his victims, and eventually they became 
tired, let go of the trees, and were torn apart when the trees snapped back into position.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Sinis}{\f4\fs20 
\par 2. This bandit lived near the cliffs. He offered to wash the feet of passers-by; then, while their feet were in the water, he kicked them over the cliffs into the jaws of a man-eating turtle.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 Sciron}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 3. This man offered hospitality to travelers, in a bed said to fit everyone, but then used a rack to stretch his guests out until they did fit.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Procrustes}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20 8. Given a presidential candidate and the year he ran, name his party FTSNOP:
\par 5. Martin Van Buren ; 1848
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Free Soil}{\f4\fs20  Party
\par 5. John Bell ; 1860
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Constitutional Union}{\f4\fs20  Party
\par 10. Peter Cooper ; 1876
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Greenback}{\f4\fs20  Party
\par 10. Neal Dow ; 1880
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Prohibition}{\f4\fs20  Party
\par 
\par 9. Identify these works by W. Somerset Maugham FTP each.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 1. Maugham's most famous novel, it chronicles the life and philosophical development of Philip Carey, a man born with a deformed foot.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Of Human Bondage}{\f4\fs20 
\par 2.  This 1944 novel, telling of the spiritual journey of Larry Darrell, has a narrator purporting to be Maugham himself.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f4\fs20 Razor's Edge}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3.  In a story similar to the life of Gauguin, Charles Strickland, a stockbroker, goes to paint in Tahiti and dies of leprosy.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f4\fs20 Moon and Sixpence}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 10. 5-10-15.  Identify these 20th century Popes, some of whom might have been cool enough to ride in that bangin\rquote  Popemobile.
\par 5. During World War II, he served as apostolic legate to Turkey and Greece where he helped rescue Jews from Nazi-controlled Hungary.  His birth name was Angelo Roncalli, and in 1959 he called the Second Vatican Council.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 John XXIII}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. Born Ambrogio Ratti, he signed a treaty with Mexico in 1929 that allowed Roman Catholic churches in Mexico to resume services.  Also in 1929, he signed the Lateran Treaty with Benito Mussolini.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Pius XI}{\f4\fs20 
\par 15. Born Giaocchino Pecci, this first pope of the 20th century made John Henry Newman a cardinal.  His encyclical }{\i\f4\fs20 Rerum Novarum}{\f4\fs20  advocated just wages and unionization, earning him the nickname \ldblquote the workers\rquote  pope.
\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Leo XIII}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4\fs20 11. Identify the following statistical distributions, 5-10-15.
\par 5. This distribution is used when there are a fixed number of observations; all observations are independent; each observation falls into one of just two categories; and the probability of success is constant for all distributions.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 binomial}{\f4\fs20  distribution
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 10. Originally intended as an approximation of Bernoulli\rquote 
s binomial law, this distribution resembles the binomial distribution if the probability involved is very small; it is often used to model radioactivity, traffic, and general distributions. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Poisson}{\f4\fs20  distribution
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 15. This distribution is used to model \ldblquote time to failure\rdblquote 
 in engineering experiments; infant mortality, early failure, and old-age wearout are all examples of curves that can be modeled with it.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 \tab Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Weibull}{\f4\fs20  distribution
\par 
\par 12. Identify the following African capitals.  You\rquote ll receive 15 points from an initial clue, or five if you need the name of the country.
\par 1. 15. Formerly named Bathurst, it was founded as a British military post in 1816; populated mainly by Wolof, Mandingo, and Aku ethnic groups, it is the center of the country\rquote s peanut and tourism industries.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f4\fs20       5.  The Gambia
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Banjul}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 2. 15. First settled by Mpongwe and Fang people, it was founded on the site of the French Fort D\rquote Aumale in 1849 by a group of freed slaves from the ship }{\i\cf0 Elizia}{\cf0 .

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20       5. Gabon
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Libreville}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f4\fs20 13. FTSNOP, identify these animals from Norse mythology.
\par 5. }{\b\f4\fs20 All or nothing}{\f4\fs20 , Odin\rquote s two black ravens who fly forth daily to collect information about world events.
\par Answers: }{\b\f4\fs20 Huginn}{\f4\fs20  and }{\b\f4\fs20 Muninn}{\f4\fs20  (Prompt on \ldblquote Thought\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Memory\rdblquote )
\par 5. Odin\rquote s eight-footed horse.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Sleipner}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. The adder that gnaws at the root of Yggdrasill.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Nidhogge}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. The she-goat whose milk makes the mead that fallen warriors feast upon in Valhalla.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Heidrum}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20 14. Identify the painter from works, 30-20-10
\par 30. }{\i\f4\fs20 The County Election, }{\f4\fs20 1851-2
\par 20. }{\i\f4\fs20 Raftsmen Playing Cards}{\f4\fs20 , }{\i\f4\fs20 The Jolly Flatboatmen in Port}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. }{\i\f4\fs20 Fur Traders Descending the Missouri}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4\fs20 Answer: George Caleb }{\b\f4\fs20 Bingham}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f4\fs20 15. Identify these classes of sub-atomic particles FTPE:
\par 1. This is the term for a sub-atomic particle with an even number of quarks and anti-quarks; it is sensitive to the strong force, and was first predicted by Hideki Yukawa in 1935.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 meson}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 2. The members of this group, the lightest of both the mesons and the hadrons, are responsible for the strong interactions between neutrons and protons in the atomic nucleus.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 pions}{\f4\fs20  or }{\b\f4\fs20 pi}{\f4\fs20  mesons
\par 3. A meson containing a strange quark and an anti-up (or an anti-down) quark, or an anti-strange quark and an up (or down) quark; it can decay into two or three pions or a muon and neutrino.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 kaon}{\f4\fs20\ul  }{\f4\fs20 or }{\b\f4\fs20 k}{\f4\fs20 -meson
\par 
\par 16. Identify the following early secretaries of State FTPE:
\par 1. The successor to Thomas Jefferson, this man won the job mainly by avoiding the Hamilton-Jefferson feud; he was forced to resign when he was wrongfully accused of soliciting bribes from the French.
\par Answer: Edmund }{\b\f4\fs20 Randolph}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 2. Washington\rquote s second Secretary of War, he went on to serve as secretary of State under both Washington and Adams; he resign
ed in 1800 after joining with Hamilton in an effort to prevent the negotiation of a peace settlement with the French.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: Timothy }{\b\f4\fs20 Pickering}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 3. He refused an offer to become secretary of War under John Adams, but then replaced Pickering as secretary of 
State; he served for less than a year, however, before being appointed to another office.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: John }{\b\f4\fs20 Marshall}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 17. Identify the following Willa Cather works from descriptions FTPE:}{\ul\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 1. Alexandra Bergson takes charge of her Nebraska family when her father dies.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 O Pioneers!}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 2. Thea Kronborg grows up in Colorado, moves to Chicago, has an affair with a married man, and ends up a soprano at New York\rquote s Metropolitan Opera House.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: The }{\b\f4\fs20 Song of the Lark}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3. Marian Forrester, the title character, is a widow who becomes the mistress of an aggressive businessman; when the businessman marries, she vanishes and is said to have eloped to South America with a wealthy Brit.
\par Answer: A }{\b\f4\fs20 Lost Lady}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 18. Identify these Napoleonic battles FTPE.
\par 1. On June 14, 1800, Austrian Michael von Melas attacked Napoleon north of Genoa with 30,000 men. Napoleon who had only 19,000 men retreated, but counterattacked after he received reinforcements and defeated the Austrians.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f4\fs20 Marengo}{\f4\fs20 
\par 2. Austria, Prussia, Russia, and Sweden attacked Napoleon on October 16, 1813.  Napoleon repelled the Allies attacks for two days, but on the 18}{\f4\fs20\super th}{\f4\fs20 
 he ordered a retreat across the Elster River.  30,000 French soldiers were stranded on the other side of the river and taken prisoner.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f4\fs20 Leipzig}{\f4\fs20  or Battle of }{\b\f4\fs20 Nations}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3. On December 2, 1805, Russia led by Alexander I and Austria led by Francis I attacked Napoleons right and left flanks.  Napoleon repelled the joint attack and counterattacked at the Allies center, breaking their lines and inflicting 25,000 casualties.

\par Answer: Battle of }{\b\f4\fs20 Austerlitz}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cf1 {\fs20\cf0 19. 30-20-10 Name the author from works.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 30. }{\i\f4\fs20 The Oak and the Calf}{\f4\fs20 , \ldblquote Incident at Krechatovka Station\rdblquote 
\par 20. \ldblquote Zakhar the Pouch\rdblquote , }{\i\f4\fs20 August, 1914}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. }{\i\f4\fs20 The First Circle}{\f4\fs20 , }{\i\f4\fs20 One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich}{\f4\fs20 
\par Answer: Aleksandr Isayevich }{\b\f4\fs20 Solzhenitsyn}{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4\fs20 20. Identify these parts of the human eye FTP each.
\par 1. This clear covering on the front of the eye protects the lens and provides a refractive surface through which light enters.
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 cornea}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 
2. This area at the center of the retina has only rods and is responsible for color vision; it is the most sensitive part of the eye.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx0\tx72\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 fovea}{\f4\fs20  centralis
\par 3. This protective external covering surrounds the retina and the choroid and is less technically described as the "white" of the eye.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 sclera}{\f4\fs20 
\par }{\f4\fs20\ul 
\par }{\f4\fs20 21. Answer the following questions about the Trent affair for the stated number of points.
\par 10. For 5 points each, which two Confederate diplomatic agents were taken prisoner when the Trent was captured?
\par Answers:  John }{\b\f4\fs20 Slidell}{\f4\fs20  and James }{\b\f4\fs20 Mason}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. For ten points, name the American minister in London who helped to prevent England from entering the war.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Charles Francis Adams}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. For a final ten points, name the US naval officer who ordered the seizure of Mason and Slidell?
\par Answer: Charles }{\b\f4\fs20 Wilkes}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 22. FTSNOP, identify these Dutch-born artists from works.
\par 5. }{\i\f4\fs20 Crows in the Wheatfield ; Potato Eaters}{\f4\fs20 
\par Answer: Vincent }{\b\f4\fs20 van Gogh}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. }{\i\f4\fs20 Composition with Red, Yellow, and Blue ; Broadway Boogie-Woogie}{\f4\fs20 
\par Answer: Piet }{\b\f4\fs20 Mondrian}{\f4\fs20 
\par 15. }{\i\f4\fs20 The Cat Family ; The Morning Toilet}{\f4\fs20 
\par Answer: Jan }{\b\f4\fs20 Steen}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 23. I\rquote ll give you the real name of an operas title character, and FTSNOP you identify the opera in which that character appears.
\par 5. Cio Cio San
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Madama Butterfly}{\f4\fs20 
\par 5. Violetta Valery
\par Answer: La }{\b\f4\fs20 Traviata}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. Walther von Stolzing
\par Answer: Die }{\b\f4\fs20 Meistersinger}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. Lenore Florestan
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Fidelio}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 24. Given the moon, name the planet it orbits, 10 points apiece.
\par 1. Atlas
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Saturn}{\f4\fs20 
\par 2. Sinope
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 Jupiter}{\f4\fs20 
\par 3. Juliet
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Uranus}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 25. FTSNOP, I\rquote ll give you a term from psychology and you tell me who coined it.
\par 5. extrovert and introvert
\par Answer: Carl }{\b\f4\fs20 Jung}{\f4\fs20 
\par 5. inferiority complex
\par Answer: Alfred }{\b\f4\fs20 Adler}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. birth trauma
\par Answer: Otto }{\b\f4\fs20 Rank}{\f4\fs20 
\par 10. client-centered therapy
\par Answer: Carl }{\b\f4\fs20 Rogers}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 26. Name these works by Mary Shelley which are not _Frankenstein_ F15PE.
\par 15. This novel is set in the 21st century, tells the tale of a man, seemingly the sole survivor of a terrible plague, who searches for a meaning to his existence.  Its title may be considered the opposite of Albert Camus's last work.
\par Answer: The }{\b\f4\fs20 Last Man}{\f4\fs20 
\par 15. The manuscript of this children's story was discovered in 1998 in an Italian villa.  It shares its title with a posthumously-published novel by E. M. Forster.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Maurice}{\f4\fs20 , or the Fisher's Cot
\par 
\par 27. There are four elements named for the Swedish village of Ytterby.  For five points each and a five point bonus for all correct, name them.
\par 25. Answers:  }{\b\f4\fs20 YTTERBIUM, YTTRIUM, ERBIUM, TERBIUM}{\f4\fs20 
\par 5. For an additional five points, what group of elements to Ytterbium, Erbrium and Terbium all belong to?
\par Answer:  }{\b\f4\fs20 LANTHANIDES}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 28. Name these stages of mitosis FTPE.
\par 1. The chromosomes separate and are moved to opposite ends of the cell by the spindle fibers.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 anaphase}{\f4\fs20 
\par 2. The spindle fibers align the chromosomes along the center of the cell. 
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 metaphase}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 3. The membrane closes between the two halves of the cell, creating two identical daughter cells.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 telophase}{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par 29. Name these parts of the human brain FTPE.
\par 1. This wide band of neurons connects the hemispheres of the brain.  It is sometimes cut to relieve epileptic seizures.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 corpus callosum}{\f4\fs20 
\par 2. Two thick groups of nerves carrying visual information cross on the lower surface of the brain to form this structure.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 optic chiasm}{\f4\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cf1 {\cf0 3. This fissure, the largest in the brain, separates the temporal lobe from the parietal and frontal lobes.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 lateral}{\f4\fs20  fissure or fissure of }{\b\f4\fs20 Sylvius}{\f4\fs20  or }{\b\f4\fs20 Sylvian}{\f4\fs20  fissure
\par 
\par 30. Given a year and a short description, identify the following battles of the Peninsular War, fifteen points each.
\par 15. 1813, It was the last major battle fought in Spain.  After Wellington won, British troops looted the French baggage train, which was full of jewels, gold and works of art taken for all over Spain.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Vitoria}{\f4\fs20 
\par 15. 1812, Along with the storming of Ciudad Roderigo, the taking of this fortress city paved the way for the British invasion of Spain.
\par Answer: }{\b\f4\fs20 Badajoz}{\f4\fs20 
\par }}