{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}}{\info
{\title 1999 ACF Regionals}{\author Martin }{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min5}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min5}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords6452}{\nofchars36779}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws45167}{\vern89}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by South Carolina (T.C. and Eric)
\par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b and Bowling Green S.U. (Nicholas Rothfuss, Douglas Grote, Elizabeth Gaughan, Brian Saxton, Adam Kittle)
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b Tossups}{
\par 
\par 1. He began teaching psychiatry at the University of Heidelberg in 1916, three years after publishing his }{\i General Psychopathology}{. However, he switched to philosophy becoming chair of the department until 1937. He is the author of }{\i 
Psychology of World Views}{, which attempts to catalog various possible attitudes toward life, and is famous for his term "the encompassing" which refers to the ultimate limits of being. FTP, name this Swiss philosopher, author of }{\i 
Philosophy and Existence}{, and an early proponent of existentialism.
\par Answer: Karl }{\b Jaspers}{
\par 
\par 2. His real name was Zahiruddin Muhammad. 
He succeeded his father as sovereign of Fergana and repeatedly tried to take Samarkand, the capital of his Timurid ancestors. He then focused his attention on India, where he won the Battle of Panipat with an army of 21,000 against an army of 100,000, the
n conquered much of northern India and established his capital at Agra. FTP, name this man, founder of the Mughal dynasty of India and whose name literally means "The Tiger".
\par Answer: }{\b Babur}{
\par 
\par 3. In Germany and Austria, two types of this instrument exist: The 
Salzburg, which is flat along its fretted side and curved out on the opposite side, and the less common Mittenwald, which is curved out on both sides. Both have 5 metal melody strings and 17 to 40 accompaniment strings. Technically, this family also inclu
des hammer dulcimer and psalteries, but it is known best through the traditional music from the Appalachians. FTP, name this instrument which uses the left hand to stop strings and calls for the use of a plectrum.
\par Answer: }{\b Zither}{
\par 
\par 4. They employed a burlesqu
e modeled on Hudibras and advocated a strong central government and attacked proponents of democratic liberalism such as Thomas Jefferson. Together they produced a satirical mock epic, The Anarchiad, which was a polemic against states slow to ratify the c
onstitution. FTP, name this group of American poets, all graduates of Yale, whose membership included John Trumbull, Joel Barlow, and Timothy Dwight. 
\par Answer: }{\b Hartford Wits}{ or }{\b Connecticut Wits}{
\par 
\par 5. Ben Johnson wrote a play concerning this man in 1603. He inf
luenced the emperor to banish Agrippina to the island of Pandataria where she eventually starved herself to death. This prefect of the Praetorian Guard ruled Rome while Tiberius left Rome to go to Capri. However, he tried to seize royal power and was put 
to death. FTP, name this man, one time minister to Tiberius.
\par Answer: Lucius Aelius }{\b Sejanus}{
\par 
\par 6. Lying on the Derwent River, Mount Wellington rises just west of this city and it lies on Wellington's lower slopes. Built around Sullivan\rquote s Cove, it was originall
y founded as a penal colony, and named, in 1804, for a British statesman. FTP, name this capital city, home to the University of Tasmania. 
\par Answer: }{\b Hobart}{
\par 
\par 7. The popularity of the 1967 BBC serial spread to other nations and revived interest in its author's works. Published in 1922 with two \ldblquote interludes,\rdblquote 
 the character of Irene in this series bear's resemblance to the author's real life spouse, Ada and the story of their family was continued in }{\i The White Monkey}{, }{\i The Silver Spoon, }{and T}{\i he Swan Song}{. FTP ident
ify this series, John Galsworthy's most famous work.
\par Answer: The }{\b Forsyte Saga}{
\par 
\par 8. This scientist taught at the University of Berlin from 1927 until 1933, when he decided that he could not teach in a nation that persecuted Jews as a part of national policy.
 He joined the Dublin institute for Advanced Studies in 1940 and during that period he wrote }{\i What is Life?}{
 in an attempt to illustrate how quantum physics can be used to explain the genetic structure. FTP, identify this theoretical physicist whose wave equation helped him win the 1933 Nobel Prize for Physics along with P.A.M. Dirac. 
\par Answer: Erwin }{\b Schrodinger}{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {9. In a famous woodcut, this man is seen resting a hand on Terminus, a Roman god whom he saw as a symbol of death.  After joining an Augustine monastery at Steyn, he was ordained a priest in 1492, and his works include }{\i 
De Libero Arbitrio}{ and }{\i Handbook of a Christian Soldier}{. FTP, identify this scholar who edited the Greek New Testament, but is best known for his 1509 satire, }{\i In Praise of Folly}{?
\par Answer: Desiderius }{\b Erasmus }{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {10. Subtitled }{\i A History of Adventure}{
, this novel tells of a ruler of Kor. The ruler killed her lover out of jealousy, but waits 2,000 years for his reincarnation. She finds him in the person of Leo Vincey who is her lover's descendant.
 She tries to make him mortal, but instead during the ritual, she crumbles to dust. FTP, his is the fate of story and fate of what woman named Ayesha in what work by H. Rider Haggard?
\par Answer: }{\b She}{\ul 
\par }{\b 
\par }{11. Energy limitation is probably the most important determ
inate, but such factors as food, availability of shelter, and the amount of competition can also influence this.  A sigmoid-shaped graph results when this factor is included in a model of growth.  Such an equation is called a logistic growth equation.  FT
P, name this quantity symbolized by a capital K, the maximum stable population size of a species that an environment could support over a period of time.
\par Answer: }{\b Carrying Capacity
\par 
\par }{12. During his reign he was famous for such behavior as wearing pajamas duri
ng public appearances, making speeches from his bed, and public weeping. After receiving his doctor of law degree at the University of Lausanne, he became the governor general of Iran's important Fars province but retired from public service in 1925. FTP 
identify this Iranian leader who returned to public service in 1944, became premier in 1951, and was ousted in a 1953 coup instigated by American and British intelligence agencies.
\par Answer: Mohammed }{\b Mosadeq}{
\par }{\b 
\par }{13. Characters in this 1852 novel include Westerve
lt, an evil mesmerist; Priscilla, who falls under Westervelt's influence; Zenobia, a dark, queenly woman; and Hollingsworth, an egotistical reformer. We find out about these characters through the coldly inquisitive narrator, Miles Coverdale. FTP, what is
 this Nathaniel Hawthorne work, based on his experiences at Brook Farm?
\par Answer: The }{\b Blithedale Romance
\par 
\par }{14. Both the generator and checker networks are logic circuits consisting of exclusive-OR gates and in one instance an exclusive-NOR gate.  The checker c
an detect any odd number of errors; however, it cannot detect an even number of errors.  In this error detection system, a binary one bit is added to each piece of information transmitted over a data network so that the total number of one bits in that pi
ece of data is a number with agreed upon division properties.  FTP, name this method of error detection, the setting on your modem that can be even or odd.
\par Answer: }{\b Parity}{ Bit}{\b 
\par 
\par }{15. This politician served in the House of Commons from 1918 to 1931 as a Conservative, Independent, and Labour party member. Detained under the Defence regulations during WWII, he founded a new \lquote Union\rquote 
 movement in 1948, and ten years described his vision in the work }{\i Europe: Faith and Plan}{. FTP identify this politician who founded the British Union of Fascists in 1932. 
\par Answer: Sir Oswald }{\b Mosley}{
\par 
\par 16. His later works express the theme that although time passes and things change, the larger patterns of Nature are recurrent. While living in rural Maine, he wrote his "Letters from the East"
 essays for the New Yorker, a magazine for which he wrote almost since its inception.  His collaboration with Thurber for }{\i Is Sex Necessary?  }{
increased the fame of both men, and he also wrote a monthly column for Harper's entitled "One Man's Meat." FTP, nam
e this author best known for his children's books and a guide on the conventions of writing he wrote with his Cornell English professor William Strunk.
\par Answer: E. B. }{\b White
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 17. Their discovery marked a break from the commutative property of multiplication. Their discoverer cut into the Brougham Bridge over Dublin\rquote 
s Royal Canal their fundamental formulas, those being I squared equals k squared equals j squared equals I times j times k equals negative one.  They provide an axiomatic geometry for complex numbe
rs in three-dimensional space.  FTP, name these ordered quadruplets discovered by Sir William Rowan Hamilton.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {Answer: }{\b Quaternions
\par 
\par }{18. He was born in Normandy, but spent most of his life in Rome, where Domenichino briefly employed him.  Rejecting the Baroque, he chose to model his work after Titian and Raphael.  Under Charles LeBrun in the 1660\rquote 
s, the French Academy would take his ideas on Classicism as a primary reference.  FTP, name this painter of }{\i Et in Arcadia Ego}{ and }{\i The Burial of Phocion}{.
\par Answer: Nicolas }{\b Poussin
\par 
\par }{19. The origins of this empire are believed to be in a Semitic population that lived in Chaldaea and at an early time moved to the upper headwaters of the Tigris River.  They were subject to the Chaldaean King at Babylon until they achieved in
dependence around 1250 BCE They rapidly eclipsed Babylon in power and became the dominant imperial power in Southwest Asia for the next 600 years.  FTP, name this empire whose greatest early king was Tigath-pileser I and lasted until the fall of Nineveh.

\par Answer: }{\b Assyria
\par 
\par }{20. The main character of this novel is last glimpsed with hundreds of young comrades in a barrage of shrapnel and gunfire. While visiting his cousin Joachim Ziemssen, Clavdia Chauchat, Leo Naptha, Settembrini, and Pepperkorn influence the 
main character, and he stays in the tuberculosis sanatorium for seven years. FTP, what is this novel about Hans Castorp, written by Thomas Mann? 
\par Answer: The }{\b Magic Mountain
\par 
\par }{21. In Book I of this 2158 line poem, the poet describes finding himself in the Te
mple of Venus, where he discovers Vergil's tale of Dido and Aeneas. In Book II, he carries on a lively conversation with an eagle en route to the dwelling place of the title character. In the third section, he sees the title character dispensing fame and 
ruin at her own whim. FTP, name this unfinished poem by Geoffrey Chaucer.
\par Answer: The }{\b House of Fame
\par }{
\par 22. This novel describes the inner life of this criminal after his release. Some claim that his father was an influential Jewish leader, but he himself was 
described as a rebel who committed murder during an insurrection against Roman forces. FTP, name this Par Lagerkvist novel, whose title character is mentioned in all four Gospels as being released by Pilate while another was condemned in his place.
\par Answer: }{\b Barabbas}{
\par 
\par 23. This war had its roots in the Pequot War and the slaughter at Mystic fort, which resulted in the deaths of several hundred Indians and the breaking of the Pequots as a power in colonial New England.  It led
\par to an uneasy forty years of peace 
between the English colonists and the other New England tribes who had combined forces to destroy the Pequots.  Name this conflict that killed 3000 out of 52000 New England colonists along with several thousand Indians and was named for the classical hono
rary bestowed on Wampanoag chief Metacomet by the English.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 King Philip}{\fs20 \rquote s War}{\b\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {24. In 1904 he became a subdirector of the Pasteur Institute in Paris. His early studies were concerned with intracellular digestion in invertebrates. Later, he named phag
ocytes and in 1884 he announced his concept of phagocytosis which formed the basis for the theory of immunity. FTP, name this recipient of the 1908 Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine which he shared with Paul Ehrlich.
\par Answer: Elie }{\b Metchnikoff
\par }{
\par 25. The n
ame of the movement is taken from a bishop of Ypres, who laid out his ideas in the treatise Augustinus. According to his teachings, all individuals are incapable of doing good without God's unsolicited grace. Unlike Protestants, who they were accused of b
eing in disguise, this sect adhered to Roman Catholicism and taught that any other faith could not be saved. FTP, name this group which had a school at Port Royale and claimed Pascal as a member. 
\par Answer: }{\b Jansenists}{
\par 
\par 26. This treaty was forced by the succes
s of the Prussian breech-loading needle guns at the Battle of Koniggratz.  The Prussians were successful in campaigns in Bohemia and Western Germany to isolate Austria from their allies in the rest of the German Confederation.  The treaty forever isolated
 
Austria from the rest of Germany and forced the Austrians to pay a large indemnity to Prussia although little territory was lost due to Bismarck's desire not to greatly antagonize Austria and maintain a balance of power in Europe.  Name this treaty which 
helped lead the way to German unification and ended the Six Weeks War.
\par Answer: Treaty of }{\b Prague}{
\par 
\par 27. Some myths emphasize her as a weeping, loving, mother and wife, while others emphasize her loose morals.  One legend features her trying and failing to save
 her son's life. She was a strong promoter of marriage and family, and lends her name to one of the days of the week.   FTP, name this Norse goddess, mother of Baldur and wife of Odin. 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 Frigg}{\fs20  or }{\b\fs20 Frij,}{\fs20  }{\b\fs20 Frea}{\fs20 , or }{\b\fs20 Friia}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {28. Much of the money that went
 into this program was funneled into the pockets of the wealthy and helped to strengthen the rule of dictators in Latin America.  Some progress was achieved though this programs, which was meant to stop Communism in Latin America.  This program consisted 
of sending economic and technical aid to the governments of Latin America.  Name this brainchild of John Kennedy meant to fight poverty that achieved limited success but mostly met with failure.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid {\fs20 Answer: }{\b\fs20 Alliance for Progress
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {29. They were first called by I
van the Terrible and the most important one discussed the Livonian War against Poland. The last one was called in 1653 and the Slavophiles attempted to revive them in the 19th century. FTP give the name of the 16th and 17th century Russian advisory counci
ls that were also known as "the assembly of the land."
\par Answer: }{\b zemsky sobor}{
\par 
\par 30. This man spent two years in foster homes until being adopted in 1891. He got his start in the film industry as a caption writer and made his first film, }{\i The President}{, in 1919. 1921's }{\i Leaves from Satan's Book, }{
established him as a director with high artistic standards, but }{\i Vampire}{, the first movie which followed his most famous, received mixed reviews. FTP, name this Danish director of }{\i The Passion of Joan of Arc}{.
\par Answer: Carl-Theodor }{\b Dreyer}{
\par 
\par 31. During the undeclared war with France between 1798 and 99, it was responsible for sinking two French frigates, the }{\i Insurgente}{ and the }{\i Vengeance}{
. Permanently berthed at Baltimore in 1964, it enjoyed the longest record of active service of any ship in the Navy. FTP, name this 36-gun frigate which was also the flagship of the United States Atlantic Fleet during WWII.
\par Answer: USS }{\b Constellation}{
\par 
\par 32. This island nation claims sovereignty over nearby Mayotte, but like the other islands used to be
, Mayotte is a French dependency. Since they broke away from French rule, the names of the three islands in this group have changed as well, with Anjouan becoming Nzwani, and Moheli becoming Mwali. FTP, identify this island nation at the northern end of t
he Mozambique Channel whose capital, Moroni, rests on the island of Njazidja. 
\par Answer: }{\b Comoros}{
\par 
\par 33. In physics, like Democritus\rquote  view, this school describes atoms as being infinite, indestructible units compounded into greater bodies. In psychology, it clai
ms that the body's senses are the only source of knowledge and that the soul provides the ability to sense and communicate. FTP identify this philosophical school that stresses the importance of receiving the gifts from the gods freely, named for a man wh
ose devoted followers met in the Garden.
\par Answer: }{\b Epicureanism}{
\par 
\par 34. A National monument to this law exists northwest of Beatrice, Nebraska. It is the site settled by Daniel Freeman and his family who were the first to make claim under the act which went into
 effect on January 1st, 1863. FTP, identify this act which provided no more than 160 acres of land in the public domain for settlement. 
\par Answer: }{\b homestead}{ laws
\par 
\par 35. It is Germany's most northwestwardly State with its eastern border at the Baltic Sea, it we
stern coast at the North Sea, and its southeastern land is bounded by Mecklenberg and West Pomaria. It has had Danish minorities in predominately German areas and German minorities in largely Danish areas. FTP identify this land that was taken from Denmar
k and made a part of Prussia following the Seven Weeks' War. 
\par Answer: }{\b Schleswig-Holstein}{
\par 
\par 36. This politician attained the rank of major general after leaving his Massachusetts Senate seat during World War II. He returned to the Senate but was defeated for 
re-election by John Kennedy in 1952, and was then appointed by Eisenhower as ambassador to the United Nations. For 10 points identify Richard Nixon's running mate in the 1960 presidential election who later served as chief negotiator in the Paris Peace ta
lks.                                                                                         
\par Answer: Henry Cabot }{\b Lodge}{ Jr.
\par 
\par 37. The daughter of King Asvapati of Madra, she marries Satyavan knowing he has only one year to live. When Yama, the god of the dea
d, comes to take Satyavan away, she follows and begs for Satyavan's return. Inpressed by her devotion, Yama vows to honor one of her promises as long as she does not ask for her husband to be spared. However, she asks instead to have 100 children by Satya
van and in so doing saves him. FTP, name this woman, whose story is told in the Mahabharata and also provides the name for an opera by Holst.
\par Answer: }{\b Savitri}{ 
\par 
\par 38. Comets that have high velocity and large mass cannot be captured by the sun's gravitational f
ield move in an orbit shaped like this conic section. The navigational device Loran uses these to pinpoint position. An equilateral one has perpendicular asymptotes. FTP, identify this conic section which has two non-intersecting branches.
\par Answer: }{\b Hyperbola}{
\par 
\par 39. He wrote biographies on Chekhov, whom he knew personally, and also on Tolstoy. His long works include }{\i The Village}{, }{\i Mitya's Love}{, and the fictional autobiography }{\i The Well of Days}{
. FTP, identify this writer most famous for his short stories and winner of the 1903 Puskin Prize for his translation of Longfellow's Hiawatha and winner of the 1933 Nobel Prize for Literature. 
\par Answer: Ivan }{\b Bunin
\par }{
\par 40. In his youth he was inspired by Emmanuel Kant, the idealism of Johann Fichte, and by the pantheism of Spinoza. At the age of eighteen he received the approval of Fichte with his first philosophical work, }{\i On the Possibility and Form of Philosophy}
{, an essay that stressed the absolutism of one's ego. FTP identify this German Idealist philosopher who has only recently been recognized as being one of Hegel's first critics. 
\par Answer: Fredrich William }{\b Schelling}{
\par 
\par 41. The Spanish forces were led by Don Juan the Younger of Austria, Louis II of Bourbon, and included a group of English Royalists led by the Duke of York, the fu
ture James II. The English and French forces were led by Viscount de Turenne and Henri La tour d'Auvergne and were reinforced by General William Lockhart's 6000 infantry. FTP identify this 1658 victory of the French and English over the Spanish that led t
he Spanish to abandon Dunkirk and to conclude the Peace of the Pyrenees. 
\par Answer: Battle of the }{\b Dunes}{
\par 
\par 42. An agreement in this city ended armed conflict between Pakistan and India in 1966. This city has an elevation of 1, 475 feet, and is intersected by a 
series of canals from the Chichiq River. For 10 points, identify the largest city in Central Asia and the capital of Uzbekistan.                                                                                                 
\par Answer: }{\b Tashkent}{
\par 
\par 43. Henry VI
I used it to perfection as it enforced the law when other courts were corrupt or inadequate. It was not bound by English Common law and did not depend on juries for indictments or verdicts. For ten points, identify the court that was utilized by Puritans 
as a symbol of Charles I's oppression.                                                                          
\par Answer: }{\b Star Chamber}{    
\par 
\par 44. The extended version has three groups of combinations: One for numbers and punctuation marks, one for uppercase le
tters and a few other punctuation marks, and a final group used for lowercase letters. For ten points identify the most common data-transmission code used in personal computers to represent textual information and non-input device commands.               
                                                      
\par Answer: }{\b A}{merican }{\b S}{tandard }{\b C}{ode for }{\b I}{nformation }{\b I}{nterchange 
\par 
\par 45. It was an incredibly controversial satire, attacking McCarthyism as well as Communism. Released in 1962, it was pulled from the theaters 
the next year due to its powerful political assassination scene in the final minutes of the film. FTP identify this John Frankenheimer film starring Frank Sinatra and Raymond Shaw as the American GI brainwashed by Chinese Communist hypnotists during the K
orean War.                                                                                                                          
\par Answer: The }{\b Manchurian Candidate}{ 
\par 
\par 46. The scanning receiver type has its light transmitter fixed to direct its beam vertica
lly and the parabolic collector scans up and down the vertical beam searching for the point where the beam intersected the base. The rotating transmitter type has its separate receiver fixed to direct reflections from directly overhead while the transmitt
er sweeps the sky. FTP identify the type of device used to measure cloud bases.
\par Answer: }{\b ceilometer}{
\par 
\par 47. Lavoisier discredited the idea of it when he discovered that oxygen was always involved when tin, lead, phosphorus, and sulfer underwent oxidation. Johan
n Becher first proposed it when he claimed that a substance liberated a combustible substance during fire and George Stahl gave it a name in the 18th century. FTP identify the hypothetical principle of fire that left only ash after being liberated. 

\par Answer: }{\b phlogiston}{
\par 
\par 48. They appear in many Spanish paintings including Hans Holbein' the Younger's "Solothurn Madonna." They may incorporate a type of Kufic script, coat of arms, or heraldic shields and often included complex borders. FTP identify this hand mad
e Spanish art form popular among Spanish nobility in the 14th and 115th centuries.
\par Answer: }{\b Admiral Carpet}{   
\par 
\par 49. First printed in 1483, they were an important source of information for his early works but his own work made them obsolete in the 1550s. Base
d on the Ptolemaic theory, they assumed that the earth was at the center of the universe and they enabled astronomers to calculate three positions of the planets at any given moment. FTP identify these astronomical catalogues named after the king of Leon 
and Castille.
\par Answer: }{\b Alfonsine Tables}{
\par 
\par 50. It utilized a special receiver attached to a radio telescope that was 26 meters in diameter at the US National Radio Astronomy Observatory at Green Bank, WV. The telescope was aimed at the stars Epsilon Eridani an
d Tau Ceti, two stars that resemble the sun and seem somewhat likely to have inhabited planets. FTP this attempt to discover intelligent life from other planets, named by Frank Drake after the writer frank Baum's tale of a marvelous distant place. 
\par Answer: }{\b Ozma Project}{
\par 
\par 51. Other works of this man include, }{\i The Renaissance}{, a study of the psychology underlying the motives behind the Italian Renaissance. His most famous work, however, exerted a great influence on Hitler, Houston Chamberlain, and Richard Wagne
r because it stated the Aryan was superior to all other races. FTP, name this French social philosopher author of }{\i Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races}{.\tab 
\par Answer: Joseph Arthur, Comte de }{\b Gobineau}{
\par 
\par 52.  First observed by William Wollaston in 1802, they 
are assigned letters such as A which is made by terrestrial oxygen and extremely red in color. They are made by the absorption of selected wavelenghts of light by atoms of gas in the atmosphere of the sun and earth. FTP, identify these dark lines named af
ter a German optician.
\par Answer: }{\b Fraunhofer}{ lines
\par 
\par 53. They were from the island of Aegina, named after a woman loved by Zeus. Hera learned of this love and sent a plague which destroyed the island's inhabitants. Aeacus, ruler of the land, saw a troop of ants
 and asked Zeus to turn them to humans to repopulate his city. FTP, this is the manner in which what followers of Achilles were created?
\par Answer: }{\b Myrmidons}{
\par 
\par 54. Diomira, with sixty silver domes; Zaira, noted for its high bastions. Anastasia has concentric c
anals and kites flying over it. Eutropia is really three cities, each inhabited on different days is sacred to Mercury. These and more are described by Marco Polo to Kublai Khan in, FTP, what work by Italo Calvino.
\par Answer: }{\b Invisible Cities}{
\par 
\par 55. Born in 193
2, he worked briefly as a set designer. While in Madrid, he made daily trips to the Prado. A typical work of his is The Arnolfini, 78 which, although incorporating the same elements as the Van Eyck work, features his signature rounded characters. FTP, nam
e this Colombian artist of The Presidential Family, Broadgate Venus and Big Hand.
\par Answer: Fernando }{\b Botero}{
\par 
\par 56. Members wore badges of the five wounds of Christ and swore an oath against the supremacy of the king. They rose early in 1536 and briefly occupied
 Lincoln. A rising also occured in Yorkshire where they were able to seize York from October to December 1536. FTP, name this uprising against Henry VIII by Roman Catholics.
\par Answer: }{\b Pilgrimage of Grace}{
\par }{\ul 
\par }{57. Having the chemical formula CoCl2, it is also kno
wn as carbonic dichloride. It is prepared by the reaction of carbon monoxide with chlorine in the presence of a catalyst. Poisonous in concentrations above 50 parts per million in air, if inhaled it causes severe and most often fatal edema of the lungs in
 a few hours. FTP, name this poison gas, associated with Victor Grignard.
\par Answer: }{\b Phosgene}{\ul  }{
\par 
\par 58. Vainamoinen attempts to take it from Louhi and, although successfull, it was broken and sunk to the bottom of a lake in Pohjola. A few pieces drifted to shore, 
which Vainamoinen planted for good luck and the land became more fruitful. Louhi orginally told Vainamoinen of this device which would enable him to win a daughter. FTP, name this magical mill which grinds out riches, meal and salt for its possesor, featu
red in the Kalevala.
\par Answer: }{\b Sampo}{
\par 
\par 59. During this period, Gondwanaland was in existence and climate was extreme. Regions 65 degrees or more from the equator were covered with glacial ice. Also, the earliest remains of terrestrial plants come from this tim
e. FTP, identify this period which was named for a tribe in Great Britain and Wales and which occurred from 438 to 408 million years ago.
\par Answer: }{\b Silurian}{ Period
\par \page }{\b 1999 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by South Carolina (T.C. and Martin)
\par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b and Bowling Green S.U. (Nicholas Rothfuss, Douglas Grote, Elizabeth Gaughan, Brian Saxton, Adam Kittle)
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b Bonuses
\par 
\par }{1. American Indians never needed to see Saturday Night Fever since they came up with some cool shit on their own. Identify these groovin' moves, FTPE.
\par 1. This dance, developed by a prophet named Wovoka, led to the massacre at Wounded Knee. It would supposedly result in the return of native lands and the disappearance of whites as well as the return of dead ancestors. 
\par Answer: }{\b Ghost Dance}{\ul 
\par }{2. Prohibited in 1881 because it was "demoralizing and barbarous", it was reintroduced in 1941 by Shoshone John Truhujo. Lasting 8 days, it involves voluntary self-laceration and torture. 
\par Answer:}{\ul  }{\b Sun Dance
\par }{3. This dance, found among the Hopi people in Arizona concerns two fraternities of Hopi, one of which in the Antelope. The dance is supposed to cause rain.
\par Answer: }{\b Snake Dance
\par 
\par }{2. Note the following types of differential equations: separable, Bernoulli, exact, homogeneous, and simple. Now, FTP each, given an equation, tell me which of the above best categorizes it.
\par 1. The derivative of y with respect to x equals the quantity x minus five divided by y.
\par Answer: }{\b Separable}{
\par 2. The derivative of y with respect to x equals y divided by x minus 1
\par Answer: }{\b Homogeneous}{
\par 3. The quantity two times x times y minus the secant of x squared all times the differential with respect to x plus the quantity x squared plus two y all times the differential with respect to y.
\par Answer: }{\b Exact
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {3. In 1912, a psychologist studied a family and determined that feeblemindedness was genetically transmitted from one generation to the next. FTPE.
\par 1. Name the fictitious name given to the family in the study.
\par Answer: }{\b Kallikak}{
\par 2. Name the psychologist who authored the study.
\par Answer: Henry H. }{\b Goddard}{
\par 3. Goddard's study of the Kallikaks is often compared with the study, by Richard Dugdale, of a New York family which was mentally and economically inferior. Name the fictitious name assigned to the family which also provides the name of the report.
\par Answer: The }{\b Jukes
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {4. Identify these Mexican War battles FTP each.
\par 1. The first battle of the war, it was fought near Brownsville, Texas. Zachary Taylor met and defeated Mariano Arista, who had crossed the Rio Grande. America claimed Arista invaded American territory and Congress declared war.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b Palo Alto}{\ul 
\par }{2. Scott's Army of the Occupation landed south of this harbor and launched some 6700 shells at the city. The Americans lost only 67 while the Mexicans lost between 1000 and 1500, including civilians.
\par Answer: }{\b Veracruz}{
\par 3. Santa Anna, with the backing of the Catholic Church, met Scott at a pass near this city. Santa Anna nearly was captured and Scott took Puebla unopposed. 
\par Answer: }{\b Cerro Gordo
\par 
\par }{5. Identify these possessions of Indra, FTPE
\par 1. Although his weapon is properly the thunderbolt, what did he use as a bow?
\par Answer: }{\b rainbow}{
\par 2. Not only man's best friend, but also a god's; this is his dog.
\par Answer: }{\b Sarma}{
\par 3. Sometimes Indra rides a white horse, but he also uses Airvata, which is this type of creature.
\par Answer: celestial }{\b elephant}{
\par }{\ul  
\par }{6. Given the famous building in Paris, identify the architect, FTP each.  Sorry, but the Eiffel Tower is not one of the questions.
\par 1. The Swiss Pavilion of the Paris City University 
\par Answer: }{\b Le Corbusier}{ or Edouard Charles }{\b Jeanneret}{
\par 2. The Glass Pyramid of the Richelieu Wing of the Louvre 
\par Answer: Ieoh Ming}{\b  Pei
\par }{3. The Centre Pompidou 
\par Answer: Richard }{\b Rogers}{ or Renzo }{\b Piano}{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\b 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {7. Identify the William Faulkner work given a short description FTPE.
\par 1. In this novel, Popeye kills Tommy then rapes Temple Drake. Lee Goodwin is wrongly accused and executed for the crime.
\par Answer: }{\b Sanctuary
\par }{2. A continuation of }{\i The Hamlet}{, this novel tracks Flem Snopes' rise from restaurant owner to bank president.
\par Answer: The }{\b Town}{
\par 3. Like }{\i Go Down, Moses}{, this book is written as a collection of short stories including "Riposte in Tertio," "An Odor of Verbena," "Ambuscade," "Retreat," and "Raid."
\par Answer: The }{\b Unvanquished}{
\par 
\par 8. Identify these plant hormones, FTPE.
\par 1. These are responsible for protein synthesis and are responsible for plant growth. Indoleacetic acid is one type of this class of hormones.
\par Answer: }{\b Auxins}{
\par 2. One type of inhibitor is this acid, which promotes leaf fall, dormancy in buds and possibly prevents the synthesis of protein.
\par Answer: }{\b abscisic acid}{\ul 
\par }{3. These hormones form in the roots and move up to the leaves and fruit to maintain growth and cell division.
\par Answer: }{\b Cytokinins}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{9. Answer these questions about rebellions and uprisings in Africa FTP each.
\par 1. This uprising began in 1952, when a secret society of Kikuyu began a campaign of violence against Europeans and disloyal Africans. 
\par Answer: }{\b Mau Mau}{ uprising
\par 2. This separatist state formed in 1967, however Civil War forced it to rejoin Nigeria.
\par Answer: }{\b Biafra}{
\par 3. This rebellion lasted from 1905-07 and was fought against colonial rule in German East Africa. The rebellion took its name from magical water which the Africans thought would render them immune to gunfire. 70,000 people were proved wrong. 
\par Answer: }{\b Maji Maji}{ uprising
\par 
\par 10. Name the authors of these similarly titled works FTP each.
\par 1. The }{\i Dunciad\tab }{\tab \tab 
\par Answer: Alexander }{\b Pope}{
\par 2. The }{\i Lusiads}{\tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: Luis de }{\b Camoens}{ or }{\b \-Camoes}{
\par 3. The }{\i Diaboliad\tab }{\tab 
\par Answer: Mikhail }{\b Bulgakov
\par 
\par }{11. Given their names in 1900, give the modern names of the following world cities FTP each.
\par 1.  Leopoldville \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Kinshasa}{
\par 2.  Saigon \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Ho Chi Minh}{ City
\par 3.  Batavia\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Djakarta}{
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the class of organic compounds FTP each.
\par 1. Cyanide is one type of this class of organic compound, with formula R-CN. It involves a carbon being triple bonded to a nitrogen. 
\par Answer: }{\b Nitrile}{
\par 2. R-SO3H is the functional group for this type of organic compound. 
\par Answer: }{\b Sulfonic acid}{s
\par 3. All compounds of this class are prefixed with mercapto. They are created through the addition of a sulfhydryl and have the general formula R-SH.
\par Answer: }{\b Thiol}{s or }{\b mercaptan}{s
\par 
\par 13. Name the following members of Ronald Reagan's cabinet FTP each.
\par 1.  Reagan's first Secretary of the Interior.
\par Answer: James }{\b Watt}{
\par 2.  Name Reagan's third and final Attorney General.
\par Answer: Richard }{\b Thornburgh}{
\par 3.  Name Reagan's first and only Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
\par Answer: Samuel R. }{\b Pierce}{, Jr.
\par 
\par 14. Name the play from characters, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  Henry Straker, Hector Malone, Mendoza
\par 20.  Octavius and Violet Robinson, Roebuck Ramsden
\par 10.  Ann Whitefield, Jack Tanner, Don Juan Tenorio
\par Answer: }{\b Man and Superman}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{15. Identify these eponymous Max Planck discoveries.
\par 5: This is equal to the ratio of the energy of a quantum of energy to its frequency.
\par Answer: Planck's }{\b Constant}{
\par 10: At this point, classical descriptions of gravity are invalid. 
\par Answer: Planck }{\b length}{
\par 15: It gives the distribution of energy emitted by a black body and introduced the concept of quanta.
\par Answer: Planck's }{\b Radiation Law}{
\par 
\par 16. Opera had its origins in Italy in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. Answer these questions on its introduction for fifteen points each.
\par 15. This member of the Camerata is generally credited with the first opera, 1598\rquote s }{\i Dafne}{.
\par Answer: Jacopo }{\b Peri}{
\par 15. Court musician to the Duke of Mantua at the end of the 16}{\super th}{ century, this composer\rquote s operas include }{\i The Coronation of Poppea}{ and }{\i The Return of Ulysses}{.
\par Answer: Claudio }{\b Monteverdi}{
\par 
\par 17. Identify the Latin American authors, 10-5 from works.
\par 1. 10. }{\i Of Love and Shadows}{, }{\i Eva Luna}{
\par       5. }{\i The House of the Spirits}{
\par Answer: Isabel }{\b Allende}{
\par 2. 10. }{\i The Green House}{, }{\i The War at the End of the World}{
\par       5. }{\i The Time of the Hero}{
\par Answer: Mario }{\b Vargas Llosa}{
\par 3. 10. }{\i The Lost Steps}{
\par       5. }{\i The Kingdom of this World}{
\par Answer: Alejo }{\b Carpentier}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{18. Name these Soviet directors FTP each.
\par 1. }{\i Old and New}{ was a film advocating collective farming. Later, he was discredited by Stalin partly because new policies rejected the montage style he was famous for. 
\par Answer: Sergei }{\b Eisenstein}{
\par 2. In 1972 he released }{\i Solaris}{, based on the Stanislaw Lem novel. His most famous movie is }{\i Andrei Rublev}{.
\par Answer: Andrey }{\b Tarkovsky}{\ul 
\par }{3. Trained under Lev Kuleshov, his early films include }{\i Mother}{ and }{\i The End of St. Petersburg}{. His most famous film in }{\i Storm Over Asia}{. 
\par Answer: Vsevolod }{\b Pudovkin}{\ul 
\par 
\par }{19. Answer the following questions involving the Treaty of Greeneville.
\par 5. This American general won a decisive battle that brought about the treaty and signed the treaty for the Americans.
\par Answer: Anthony }{\b Wayne}{
\par 5. This decisive battle brought about the treaty.
\par Answer: }{\b Fallen Timbers}{
\par 10. This man was chief of the Miami Nation and had led the defeats of Harmar and St. Clair. He was later one of the chiefs to sign the treaty.
\par Answer: }{\b Little Turtle}{
\par 10. This man was a hero of St. Clair's defeat and the county where the fort was located is named for him.
\par Answer: Lieutenant Colonel William }{\b Darke
\par }{
\par 20. Identify the following terms from cell biology beginning with the letter 'C' FTP each.
\par 1. Organelle of animal cells that is made up of two orthogonally arranged cylinders each with nine microtubule triplets composing the wall.
\par Answer: }{\b Centriole}{
\par 2. The region in eukaryote chromosomes where daughter chromatids are joined together.
\par Answer:  }{\b Centromere}{
\par 3. An organism that is not subdivided into cells but has many nuclei within a mass of cytoplasm (a syncytium), as for example some fungi and algae, and the acellular slime mold }{\i Physarum}{.
\par Answer:  }{\b Coenocyte
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {\ul 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {21. 30-20-10 Name the author from works
\par 30.  The Insect Play, Meteor
\par 20.  The War with the Newts, President Masaryk Tells His Story
\par 10.  Rossom's Universal Robots, The Macropulos Secret
\par Answer: Karl }{\b Capek
\par }{
\par 22. Identify the following rivers of Greek mythology on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 5. Identify the river the gods swore their most binding oaths on, in Homeric legend.
\par Answer: the }{\b Styx}{
\par 10. Identify the river that was said to circle the earth.
\par Answer: }{\b Oceanus}{
\par 15. This river, which in reality exists in Epirus, Greece, was thought to flow to the underworld because of its dark gorges and the fact that it is underground in seve
ral places.  Its name, meaning River of Woe, has come to refer to the underworld more generally. 
\par Answer: }{\b Acheron
\par 
\par }{23. Identify the type of volcano from a description FTPE.
\par 1. These are built almost entirely from fluid lava flows called basalt lava that spread over wide distances and cool in thin sheets.
\par Answer: }{\b Shield}{ Volcanoes
\par 2. These are formed by bulbous masses of lava that are two viscous to flow any sort of distance from its vent.
\par Answer: }{\b Lava Dome}{
\par 3. This is the simplest type of volcano.  It is built from blobs of lava ejected from a single vent and rarely is over 1,000 feet high.
\par Answer: }{\b Cinder Cone
\par 
\par }{24. Name the composer, 30-20-10.
\par 30.  Two oratorios: The Apostles and The Kingdom
\par 20. Love\rquote s Greeting and the Cockaigne overture
\par 10. The Dream of Gerontius, Enigma Variations
\par Answer: Edward }{\b Elgar
\par 
\par }{25. Given the following accomplishment in space give the person who achieved it.
\par 5. First man in space more than 24 hours.
\par Answer: Gherman }{\b Titov}{
\par 5. First man in to go into space more than once.
\par Answer: Virgil Gus }{\b Grissom}{
\par 10. First person to die as a result of going into space.
\par Answer: Vladimir }{\b Komarov}{
\par 10. First non-American or Soviet in space.
\par Answer: Vladimir }{\b Remek}{ 
\par Authors Note: He was from Czechoslovakia
\par 
\par 26. Answer these questions about an American author for the stated number of points.
\par 5. For 5 points, name the creator of Tilbury Town. 
\par ANSWER: Edwin Arlington }{\b Robinson}{
\par 10.  For ten points, name his book of poems, originally titled The Torrent and the River, which contains
\par "Richard Corey" and "Luke Havergal."
\par ANSWER: The }{\b Children of the Night}{
\par 15.  For 5 points each, name the trilogy of long blank-verse narratives which Robinson based on the King
\par Arthur stories.
\par  ANSWER:  }{\b Merlin}{,}{\b  Lancelot}{,}{\b  Tristram}{
\par 
\par 27. Name these architects.
\par A. This Estonian-American architect created the Yale Art Gallery and the Kimball Art Museum in Fort Worth.
\par Answer: Louis }{\b Kahn}{
\par B. This guy designed the funky-ass Sydney opera house.
\par Answer: Jorn }{\b Utzon}{
\par C. He designed the first Corcoran Gallery now named in his honor, but he is more famous for St. Patrick's in New York, and the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C.
\par Answer: James }{\b Renwick}{
\par 
\par 28. Identify these Eugene O\rquote Neill plays given descriptions.
\par A. The sequel to Long Day's Journey Into Night, the plot centers around Phil Hogan, a widower leasing the Tyrone's farmhouse, Hogan's daughter Josie, and Jim Tyrone, Jr. 
\par Answer: A }{\b Moon for the Misbegotten}{
\par B. This play concerns Ephraim and Abbie Cabot, who seduces and then smothers Ephraim\rquote s son Eben.
\par Answer: }{\b Desire Under the Elms}{
\par C. Forbidden by his father to court Muriel, Richard falls under the influence of Belle. Sid, his uncle, handles everything and, at the end, everything is put right in this O\rquote Neill comedy.
\par Answer: }{\b Ah, Wilderness!}{
\par 
\par 29. Answer the following related music questions.
\par 5: This composer is famous for the opera Ariane and Bluebeard as well as the scherzo, The Sorcerer's Apprentice.
\par Answer: Paul }{\b Dukas}{
\par 10: This composer of Turangalila and La Transfiguration studied under Paul Dukas. His most famous work is Quartet for the End of Time.
\par Answer: Oliver }{\b Messiaen}{
\par 5: This member of Les Six wrote an autobiography, Notes Without Music as well as the opera Christophe Colomb and The Creation of the World. 
\par Answer: Darius }{\b Milhaud}{
\par 10: This German studied under Messiaen and Milhaud. His works inc
lude Zyklus for solo percussion which can be played in any order, backwards and forwards and even with the music upside down. He founded Cologne's Electronic Music Studio and is working on a cycle of 7 operas each named after days of the week.
\par Answer: Karlheinz }{\b Stockhausen}{\ul 
\par }{
\par 30. In the grand tradition of Charlie Steinhice, we now present-- Travels With T.C.
\par A. On his way to Oslo, T.C. crossed this strait. It links Sweden with Denmark. Famous ports include Malmo, Copenhagen and Helsingor. 
\par Answer: }{\b Oresund}{
\par B. T.C. visited this city in Spain which was one of the most important Roman cities in the late 3rd century B.C. Lieing at the mouth of the Francoli river, it is in Catalonia and capital of its own province. Robert Coover's wife is from this city. 
\par Answer: }{\b Tarragona}{
\par C. T.C. ate at a McDonald's in this Prague square where the main demonstrations were which toppled the Communist regime.
\par Answer: }{\b Wenceslas}{ Square
\par 
\par 31. Japanese authors from works, FFPE.
\par A. A trilogy of novels-- Sanshiro, Sorekara, and Mon\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Natsume}{ Soseki}{\ul  }{
\par B. "In a Grove", a short story and Rashomon\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Akutagawa}{\ul  }{
\par C. The Silent Cry, a novel\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Oe}{ Kenzabura
\par }\pard \fi-6480\li6480\widctlpar\adjustright {D. Some Prefer Nettles, Diary of a Mad Old Man\tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Tanizaki  }{Junichiro
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {E. The Woman in the Dunes\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Abe}{ Kobo
\par F. Silence, a novel\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Answer: }{\b Endo}{ Shusaku
\par 
\par  32. Answer the following questions concerning Topology.
\par A. The word topology was coined by which mathematician?\tab \tab 
\par Answer: Solomon }{\b Lefschetz}{
\par B. How are two geometric figures or point sets described if a one-to-one correspondence that is continuous in both directions exists between them?
\par Answer: }{\b Homeomorphic}{
\par C. One question concerning colors on a map was solved in 1976. How many colors are needed so that two regions that share the same border have the same color?
\par Anwer: }{\b 4}{
\par 
\par 33. There are over 20 straits named in my CD-ROM encyclopedia. Name these.
\par 1. This is a narrow arm of the South Pacific which separates the South Island from Stewart Island and is famous for its oysters.
\par Answer: }{\b Foveaux}{ Strait
\par 2. This strait provides the only access to the Israeli port of Elat at the head of the Gulf of Aqaba. It links the Gulf to the Red Sea.
\par Answer: Strait of }{\b Tiran}{
\par 3. This strait is part of Wallace's Line. It separates Borneo on the west and the island of Sulawesi (part of the Celebes) on the east.
\par Answer: }{\b Makassar}{ Strait
\par 
\par 34. For the stated number of points, identify characters from Homer's Iliad from a brief description:
\par  A. (5)Slain by Hector while wearing the armor of Achilles 
\par ANSWER:  }{\b Patroclus}{
\par  B. (5) Wife of Hector and mother of Astyanax                   
\par ANSWER:  }{\b Andromache}{
\par  C. (10) Famed archer and half-brother to Ajax                   
\par     ANSWER:  }{\b Teucer}{
\par  D. (5) Mother of Achilles                                    
\par ANSWER:  }{\b Thetis}{
\par  E. (5) Wise king of Pylos, and oldest councilor of the Greeks  
\par     ANSWER:  }{\b Nestor}{
\par 
\par 35.  Answer the following questions about cell biology for the stated number of points.
\par A. (5) Name the model of the cell membrane which accounts for its bilayer of phospholipids and proteins.
\par ANSWER: }{\b Fluid Mosaic}{ model
\par B. (10) What term refers to the movement of molecules across the cell membrane through protein pores
\par which does NOT require an energy expenditure?
\par ANSWER: }{\b Passive Transport}{ (accept: carrier mediated diffusion)
\par C. (15) The ratio of the concentration of a substance in organic solution to its concentration in aqueous solution is a quantity which determines the extent to which the substance diffuses across the cell membrane.  What name is given to this ratio?

\par ANSWER: }{\b Partition Coefficient}{
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {36. Name the following European winners of the Nobel Prize in Literature for ten points each.
\par A. He wrote the novels The Crime of Sylvester Bonnard and Contemporary History and won the prize
\par in 1921.
\par Answer: Anatole }{\b France}{
\par B. A symbolist despite the realism of his time, he wrote the play Pelleas and Melisande and the allegorical fable The Blue Bird.
\par Answer: Maurice }{\b Maeterlinck}{
\par C. This Parnassian author of Les epreuves won the first Nobel Prize.
\par Answer: Rene-Francois-Armand }{\b Sully}{ }{\b Prudhomme}{\ul 
\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {37. For ten points each, tell in which geological period these mountain ranges were formed : five if you need the era. 
\par 10 : Appalachian        
\par 5 : Era :  Paleozoic
\par Answer: }{\b Permian}{
\par 10 : Alps                      
\par  5 : Era : Cenozoic     
\par Answer: }{\b Tertiary}{
\par 10 : Rockies                   
\par 5 : Era : Mesozoic
\par Answer: }{\b Cretaecous}{
\par }}