{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qc\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \i \sbasedon10 
Emphasis;}}{\info{\title Matt Schneller}{\author Matt Schneller}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min5}{\revtim\yr1999\mo3\dy13\hr1\min5}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords4813}{\nofchars27439}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws33697}
{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid {1999 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Questions by Vanderbilt A (Matt Schneller)
\par Tossups
\par }{
\par 1. This law of astronomy grew out of a relationship discovered between radial velocity and distance.  The associated constant, also named after the same astronomer, is only known to wit
hin a factor of two.  FTP, name this law that states that the further away a galaxy is away from is, the faster it is receding away from us.
\par Answer: }{\b Hubble}{\rquote s law
\par 
\par 2. Only four appearances of this figure are recorded in the Bible: in the Book of Daniel, he not only explains the vision of the horned ram as portending the destruction of the Persian Empire by the Macedonian Alexander the Great, but also makes the 
\ldblquote seventy weeks\rdblquote  prophecy concerning Christ\rquote s birth and foretells to Zachary the birth of the Precursor.  FTP, name the archangel who makes his most famous appearance to Mary, known as the Annunciation.
\par Answer: St. }{\b Gabriel}{ the Archangel
\par 
\par 3. Created at the instigation of Secretary of War Russell A. Alger, they were headed by Colonel Leonard Wood and were under the direction of General Kent and Nelson A. Miles.  Their first combat was at Las Gu}{\cgrid0 \'e1}{
simas, but a major engagement occurred a few days later.  After taking Kettle Hill, they moved to reinforce a beleaguered division on the neighboring San Juan Hill i
n a famous charge.  FTP, name this unit of the Spanish-American War, whose Lieutenant Colonel was Teddy Roosevelt.
\par Answer: }{\b Rough Riders}{
\par 
\par 4. Its four divisions operate a National Library and 13 research centers, a research hospital, the Clinical Center, and
 the Fogarty International Center.  It was founded in 1930, and is a subdivision of the Department of Health and Human Services.  FTP, name this agency centered in Bethesda, Maryland, that specializes in biomedical research related to diseases and other h
ealth problems.
\par Answer: }{\b N}{ational }{\b I}{nstitutes of }{\b H}{ealth
\par 
\par 5. This author\rquote s only significant book was made into a film by Peter Greenaway in 1996, and has been translated into English by Arthur Waley and Ivan Morris. Written in the 10}{\super th}{ century AD, her book is 
a compilation of various stories and tales, including chapters on \ldblquote Embarrassing Things\rdblquote  and \ldblquote People Who Seem to Suffer.\rdblquote  FTP, name the Japanese author best known for her }{\i Pillow Book}{.
\par Answer: }{\b Sei Shonagon}{ (SAY SHOW-na-gon but, of course, be lenient)
\par 
\par 6. It was based on a proposal by Lord Robert Cecil and Col. Edouard R}{\cgrid0 \'e9}{
quin, but the actual document was drafted by Eduard Benes and Nicholas Politis.  Presented by British Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald, it was unanimously recommended to the members of the Leag
ue of Nations.  It provided for compensatory arbitration of all disputes, while defining the \ldblquote aggressor\rdblquote  as the nation unwilling to submit the case to arbitration.  FTP, identify this \ldblquote protocol\rdblquote 
 named for a Swiss city.
\par Answer: }{\b Geneva}{ protocol
\par 
\par 7. Limited p
roteolysis, phosphorylation, and isoprenylation all occur here.  In flagellate protozoa, it is known as the parabasal body and in plants, it is known as the dictyosome.  It was first described in 1898 but, because of the limitations of light microscopy an
d because staining techniques failed to resolve its structure, its existence was not proven until the late 1950s.  FTP, name the organelle where glycosylation occurs and proteins are packaged for secretion.
\par Answer: }{\b Golgi apparatus}{ or }{\b Golgi bodies}{ or }{\b Golgi sacs}{
\par 
\par 8. This woman\rquote s works for children are translated into English in }{\i Crickets and Frogs: A Fable}{. She was a village schoolteacher, and donated the proceeds of her work }{\i Tala}{
 to the relief of Basque children orphaned in the Spanish Civil War. Scarred by an affair with a railway employee who committed suicide, her works include }{\i Desolaci\'f3n}{, }{\i Ternura}{, and }{\i Sonetos de la muerte}{
.  FTP, name this author, born Lucila Godoy Y Alcayaga, the 1945 Nobel Prize winner in Literature from Chile.
\par Answer: Gabriela }{\b Mistral}{
\par 
\par 9. Hans Bellmer\rquote s series of prints entitled }{\i La Poupee}{ are representative of this art movement, as is Roberto Matta\rquote s oil painting }{\i A Grave Situation}{.  Also representative is Joseph Cornell\rquote s }{\i Hotel Eden}{
 and Yves Tanguy\rquote s (\ldblquote tan-GHEE\rquote s\rdblquote ) }{\i Infinite Divisibility}{.  The ideas for the art movement were contained in a 1924 \ldblquote Manifesto\rdblquote 
 written by Andre Breton.  FTP, name the artistic school more famously represented by Giorgio De Chirico (\ldblquote Kir-ee-koh\rdblquote ), Joan Miro, and Rene Magritte.
\par Answer: }{\b surrealism}{
\par 
\par 10.  Predicted in 
1924 by Wolfgang Pauli, it was observed in beams irradiated with RF energy in 1933 by Stern and Gerlach.  First observed in bulk materials by Felix Bloch (BLOCK) and Edward Mills Purcell, they shared the Nobel Prize in physics in 1952 for their discovery.
  FTP, name the process in which a strong magnetic field and radio waves are used to determine the chemical contents of a material.
\par Answer: }{\b N}{uclear }{\b M}{agnetic }{\b R}{esonance
\par 
\par 11. Founded in 1980 by Alex Pacheco (PAK-ay-ko) and others, it is based in Norfolk, VA.  
Its first big legal victory was in the 1981 Silver Springs case, and it has won court cases against universities like Wright State and Penn, as well as such firms as General Motors, Boys Town, and L\rquote 
Oreal.  Perhaps its most interesting victory was against a Californian who electrocuted chinchillas by clipping wires to the animals\rquote  genitals.  FTP, name this organization whose annual anti-fur campaigns feature nude supermodels.
\par Answer: }{\b P}{eople for the }{\b E}{thical }{\b T}{reatment of }{\b A}{nimals
\par 
\par 12. \ldblquote Millions endeavoring to supply / Each other\rquote s Lust and Vanity / Whilst other Millions were employed / To see their handy-works destroyed.\rdblquote 
 These lines come from a book first published in 1714, which directly attacked the optimistic prognostications of Lord Shaftesbury.  It put fo
rward the controversial argument that private vice could lead to public benefit.  FTP, name this allegorical book, ostensibly dealing with a colony of insects, by Bernard Mandeville.
\par Answer: A }{\b Fable of the Bees}{
\par 
\par 13. At the age of 9, this woman published a 
Latin discourse in defense of higher education for women.  More famous as a mathematician, she has a crater on the face of Venus named in her honor.  In 1750, she became the first woman to hold the mathematics chair at the University of Bologna and is mos
t noted for her work in differential calculus.  FTP, name the woman whose most famous invention is just a cubic curve, despite its mistranslation as \ldblquote witch.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: Maria Ga\'ebtana }{\b Agnesi}{
\par 
\par 14. Its source was not discovered until 1995; French explorer Michel Peissel found it in a high mountain pass.  The UN\rquote 
s plans to tap this river with a hydroelectric plant were scratched with the outbreak of war in 1959, but have been reinitiated with vigor: by 1996, fifty-four dams were planned along its banks.  FTP, name 
this 2600 mile river that passes through China, Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam.
\par Answer: }{\b Mekong}{ River
\par 
\par 15. This religion\rquote s founder lived most of his life in the villages of Turfan and Tunhwang, and the sect he founded rose to prominence unde
r Sapor I.  He received the divine insights that would constitute the basis of his religion at the ages of twelve and twenty-four.  In it, people were divided into three groups: the faithful Elect, who would move on to Paradise, the halfhearted Hearers, w
ho would be reborn, and the Sinners, who would be plunged into an inferno.  FTP, name this conflation of Gnosticism, Zoroastrianism, and Christianity named for its 3}{\super rd}{
 century founder, very popular among Roman military officers and influential in St. Augustine\rquote s early years.
\par Answer: }{\b Manichaeism}{
\par 
\par 16. On the home front, this ruler paved the streets of Paris and officially established it as the French capital.  He worked with Pope Innocent III to secure victory over Flemish and German forces at the Battle of Bo
uvines (BOOV-in).  At the turn of the century, he confiscated the Norman lands of King John of England, as well as acquiring Maine and Touraine (TOOR-in).  FTP, name this powerful French monarch who succeeded Louis VII in 1180.
\par Answer: }{\b Philip II}{ or }{\b Philip Augustus}{ or }{\b Philippe-Auguste}{
\par 
\par 17. Measured in terms of the HOMO and LUMO energy levels, this concept was first postulated in the 1939 book }{\i The Nature of the Chemical Bond, and the Structure of Molecules and Crystals}{.  Its creator, a Cal Tech physicist who 
was rewarded with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1954 for its discovery, was Linus Pauling.  FTP, give the term for the tendency for atoms in a molecule to attract electrons.
\par Answer: }{\b electronegativity}{
\par 
\par 18. The last part of his fifth symphony was used in Visconti\rquote s film }{\i Death in Venice}{, while his third symphony draws the words for its fourth movement, \ldblquote What Man Tells Me,\rdblquote  from Nietzsche\rquote s}{\i 
 Also Sprach Zarathustra}{.  His second symphony, whose fourth movement contains lyrics from the song \ldblquote Primal Light\rdblquote  from }{\i Des Knaben Wunderhorn}{ (Des NOB-in VUND-er-horn), is known as the \ldblquote Resurrection.\rdblquote 
  FTP, name this Bohemian best known for his symphony #8, or \ldblquote Symphony of a Thousand.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: Gustav }{\b Mahler}{
\par 
\par 19. This underground figure is credited with coining the phrase, \ldblquote Vote early and vote often.\rdblquote   Born in Naples, he rose to power after snagging control of Johnny Torrio\rquote 
s Brooklyn gang.  His most famous hit resulted in the deaths of not only the innocent bystander Dr. Reinhardt H. Schwimmer but also six henchmen of \ldblquote Bugs\rdblquote  Moran.  FTP, name the gangster who ordered the famous \ldblquote St. Valentine
\rquote s Day Massacre\rdblquote  and afterwards took over the Chicago mob scene.
\par Answer: Al }{\b Capone}{
\par 
\par 20. She was seduced by one of her cousins at the age of sixteen, and soon after took up working in a St. Louis whorehouse.  After returning to New York City to meet her father at Johnny the Priest\rquote 
s Saloon, she falls in love with Mat Burke.  She marries Burke, who signs on to sail on the }{\i Londonderry}{ with her father, Chris Christopherson.  FTP, name the title character of a 1921 drama by Eugene O\rquote Neill.
\par Answer: }{\b Anna Christie}{ or }{\b Anna Christopherson}{
\par 
\par 21. Invented by Samuel Pierpont Langley in 1860, its original construction was very simple: two strips of platinum connected by a Wheatstone bridge.  Modern version
s use temperature or electrically-sensitive materials, and have been used to measure the heats of very distant stars.  FTP, name this device that measures very small amounts of microwaves or other forms of radiant energy.
\par Answer: }{\b bolometer}{
\par 
\par 22. Speaker of 
the House three times between 1854 and 1869, before his involvement in electoral politics, he edited a major Whig newspaper from his home in South Bend, Indiana.  After becoming a Republican, he rose to his highest office and endured his greatest disgrace
, the Cr\'e9dit Mobilier scandal.  FTP, name the man not renominated as Vice-President under Ulysses S. Grant in 1872. 
\par Answer: Schuyler }{\b Colfax}{
\par 
\par 23. This scientist warned of the powers of the modern weaponry when he said, \ldblquote I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones.\rdblquote 
 Admitted to the Swiss Polytechnic Institute in 1896, he created the \ldblquote equivalence principle\rdblquote  equating gravitational force and the inertial force of a system in accelerated motion
.  FTP, name the scientist who published his three most important papers in 1905, while working for the Swiss Patent Office.
\par Answer: Albert }{\b Einstein}{
\par 
\par 24. On Easter Sunday in 1478, a rival family with the backing of Pope Sixtus IV attempted to assassinate him and his brother during Mass. He escaped unharmed, but the death of his brother in the \ldblquote Pazzi Conspiracy\rdblquote 
 made him abandon his frivolous love poetry and embrace the humanistic intellectualism of such scholars as Angelo Poliziano (PALL-itz-ee-an-oh)  and 
Giovanni Pico della Mirandola, as well as artists like Sandro Botticelli.  FTP, name this patron of the arts and ruler of Florence after the death of his father Piero.
\par Answer: }{\b Lorenzo de\rquote  Medici}{ (prompt on early \ldblquote Pazzi Conspiracy\rdblquote  buzz)
\par 
\par 25. The virtues of
 courtesy, justice, friendship, chastity, temperance, and holiness are praised in the sections of this poem.  Allegorically presenting these virtues are Sir Calidore, Sir Artegall, Sir Cambel and Telamond, Lady Britomartis, Sir Guyon, and the Red Cross Kn
ight.  FTP, name this epic poem featuring King Arthur and the title monarch, by Edmund Spenser.
\par Answer: The }{\b Faerie Queen}{
\par 
\par 26. One monarch of this name and regnal number was the son of Francis I and Maria Theresa, and brother of Joseph II and Marie Antoinett
e.   The other was originally named Louis Philippe Marie Victor, was married to the Austrian princess Marie Henrietta, and financed Lord Henry Stanley\rquote 
s trip along the Congo River.  FTP, give the common name shared by these kings, respectively an 18}{\super th}{ century Holy Roman Emperor and 19}{\super th}{ century Belgian monarch.
\par Answer: }{\b Leopold II}{
\par 
\par 27. This newspaper\rquote s founder said, \ldblquote I believe that all government is evil, and that trying to improve it is largely a waste of time.\rdblquote   It began in 1924, and the founder remained its editor until 1933.  As with }{\i The Smart Set
}{, the paper was created by the collaboration of George Jean Nathan with the cynical author of }{\i The American Language}{ and }{\i Prejudices}{.  FTP, name this H. L. Mencken creation.
\par Answer: }{\b American Mercury}{
\par 
\par 28. More than 
90% of the species in this class live in freshwater or terrestrial habitats, and 100% are hermaphroditic.  This class probably spawned class Hirudinea (HEAR-ud-IN-ea), or leeches, but unlike class Polychaeta they have no parapodia, eyes, or anterior tenta
cles, and have relatively few bristles.  FTP, name this subdivision of phylum Annelida that includes the common earthworm.
\par Answer: }{\b Oligochaeta}{ or }{\b Oligochaetes}{
\par 
\par 29. He provided the first comprehensive modern summary of Stoic logic, as well as incorporating A
ristotelian syllogisms into a deductive system.  He also obtained several important results in sentimental calculii, and posited the existence of a third truth-value, \ldblquote possible,\rdblquote  in his 1918 paper on Aristotle\rquote 
s notion of future possibility.  FTP, name this Polish philosopher, the best known of the \ldblquote Warsaw School\rdblquote  of logicians.
\par Answer: Jan }{\b Lukasiewicz}{ (LOOK-as-eew-itz)
\par 
\par 30. A Protestant pastor and a girl\rquote s school literature teacher, he pointed towards the \ldblquote Dinggedicht\rdblquote  style of German writing but is more properly associated with the conservative, bland \ldblquote Biedermeier\rdblquote 
 movement.  He wrote the novel }{\i Painter Nolen}{ and the short story \ldblquote Mozart on His Trip to Prague\rdblquote .  FTP, name the German best known for 19}{\super th}{ century poetry like \ldblquote A Little before Dawn\rdblquote  and \ldblquote 
To an Aeolean Harp.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: Eduard }{\b M}{\b\cgrid0 \'f6}{\b rike}{
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid {\page 1999 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Questions by Vanderbilt A (Matt Schneller)
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20\cgrid {Bonuses
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par 1. Identify the librettists FTP each from a few clues.
\par 1. This Italian was commissioned by Mozart to write the librettos for }{\i The Marriage of Figaro}{, }{\i Don Giovanni}{, and }{\i Cos}{\i\cgrid0 \'ec}{\i  fan tutte}{.  After a stint as a New Jersey grocer, he taught literature at Columbia.
\par Answer: Lorenzo }{\b Da Ponte}{
\par 2. As a composer, this man wrote bumpin\rquote  operas like }{\i Mefistofele}{ and }{\i Nerone}{. His librettos for Verdi include }{\i Falstaff}{ and }{\i Otello}{.
\par Answer: Arrigo }{\b Boito}{
\par 3. His dramatic works include }{\i Gestern}{ and }{\i Jedermann}{\'b8 but this man is better known for collaborating with Richard Strauss on operas like }{\i Ariadne auf Naxos}{ and }{\i Die Frau ohne Schatten}{.
\par Answer: Hugo von }{\b Hoffmannsthal}{
\par 
\par 2. Name these figures, all of whom had the unfortunate luck to be flayed FTP each.
\par 1. This satyr found Athena\rquote s flute and challenged Apollo to a musical contest.  He lost the competition and his skin.
\par Answer: }{\b Marsyas}{
\par 2. Herotodus and Valerius Maximus tell that this corrup
t Babylonian magistrate was tried and convicted of bribery by Cambyses.  After his death, his skin was used to re-upholster the vacant throne of judgement.  Ironically, his son was given the seat and was thus cushioned by his father\rquote s flesh.
\par Answer: }{\b Sisamnes}{
\par 3. This apostle was flayed in India, where he carried Jesus\rquote  teaching. In Michaelangelo\rquote s }{\i Last Judgement}{, this guy is chillin\rquote  and holding his flaying knife and his skin, which is also a self-portrait of the artist.
\par Answer: Saint }{\b Bartholomew}{
\par 
\par 3. Answer the following questions about divalent carbon compounds FTP each.
\par 1. Recent investigations into the fleeting, unstable compounds of divalent carbon compounds have been intense due to their high degree of stereospecificity.  Give the common name for these compounds.
\par Answer: }{\b carbene}{s
\par 2.Give the name of the simplest carbene, which is prepared by the decomposition of diazomethane.
\par Answer: }{\b methylene}{
\par 3. For a final ten point, identify the cyclic alkane with formula C6H12, which exists in \ldblquote chair\rdblquote  and \ldblquote boat\rdblquote  forms.
\par Answer: }{\b cyclohexane}{
\par 
\par 4. Identify the Nikolai Gogol works FTP each.
\par 1. This novel relates the adventures of Paul Chichikov, who concocts a shady scheme for making money.
\par Answer: }{\b Dead Souls}{
\par 2. Later expanded into a novel, this story follows the familial discontent wrought by a war between Cossacks and Poland.  The title character kills his son before being captured and tortured to death by Polish forces.
\par Answer: }{\b Taras Bulba}{
\par 3. In this 1835 short story, the bureaucrat Poprischin\rquote s belief that he is the King of Spain is played out in vivid language and disgusting detail.
\par Answer: The }{\b Diary of a Madman}{
\par 
\par 5. Answer the following questions about events in 1954 FTP each.
\par 1. An October treaty pledged that Russia would evacuate from this Chinese naval base by June of the next year.
\par Answer: }{\b Port Arthur}{
\par 2. This Indian leader rejected offers of U.S. military aid and demanded the withdrawal of U.S. observers from Kashmir.
\par Answer: Prime Minister Jawaharlal }{\b Nehru}{
\par 3. On the death of Ibn Saud, Saud ibn Abdel Aziz became the new king, but this ambitious son became both prime minister and crown prince.
\par Answer: Prince }{\b Faisal}{
\par 
\par 6. Identify the literary critics FTP each.
\par 1. This Englishman wrote }{\i The Spirit of the Age}{ in 1825 and }{\i The Characters of Shakespeare\rquote s Plays}{.  More liberal than Coleridge and Southey, his reviews of contemporary authors and Elizabethan drama held great sway in the 19}{\super th
}{ century.
\par Answer: William }{\b Hazlitt}{
\par 2. His }{\i The Seven Lamps of Architecture}{ and }{\i The Stones of Venice}{ are his most influential critical works, but his }{\i Modern Painters}{ won him wide fame.
\par Answer: John }{\b Ruskin}{
\par 3. This French structuralist critic is also associated with semiotics and New Criticism.  His most prominent books include }{\i Writing Degree Zero}{, }{\i Criticism and Truth}{, and }{\i On Racine}{.
\par Answer: Roland }{\b Barthes}{
\par 
\par 7. Yo! Minerals! Given a few minerals that contain a defining element, name the element FTP each.
\par 1. Colemanite, howlite, kernite, ulexite
\par Answer: }{\b boron}{
\par 2. Corundum, franklinite, spinel
\par Answer: }{\b oxygen}{
\par 3. Chalcopyrite, galena, pyrite, rammelsbergite
\par Answer: }{\b sulfur}{
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following battles of the Overland campaign in northern Virginia FTP each.
\par 1. This May 5}{\super th}{ \endash  8}{\super th}{, 1864 battle saw Lee and Beauregard preemptively attack Grant and Mead in a thick forest.
\par Answer: Battle of the }{\b Wilderness}{
\par 2. Only two days later, Grant attempted to flank Lee near the courthouse of this small city, starting a five-day bout of trench warfare.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b Spotsylvania}{
\par 3. On the first day of June, Grant assaulted this town and was driven back.  One of the bloodiest battles of the war, it was the last major engagement north of the James River.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b Cold Harbor}{
\par 
\par 9. Answer these questions about an art movement FTP each.
\par 1. Identify the German expressionist movement founded in Dresden in 1905, which featured vigorous brushwork, emphatic lines, and bright color.
\par Answer: Die }{\b Br}{\b\cgrid0 \'fc}{\b cke}{ or The }{\b Bridge}{
\par 2. His real last name was Hansen, but this member of Die Br}{\cgrid0 \'fc}{cke made paintings like }{\i March}{ and }{\i Dance Around the Golden Calf}{, as well as a series of masks based on a trip to New Guinea.
\par Answer: Emile }{\b Nolde}{
\par 3. He committed suicide after the Nazis confiscated his paintings.  A founding member of Die Br}{\cgrid0 \'fc}{cke, he is best known for }{\i Girl under a Japanese Parasol}{ and }{\i Berlin Street Scene}{.
\par Answer: Ernst Ludwig }{\b Kirchner}{
\par 
\par 10. Identify the following early African-American authors from clues for fifteen points each.
\par 1. His 1789 autobiography was the first published biography by a black man.  He was Nigerian enslaved in America who bought his freedom, moved to England, and became active in that country\rquote s antislavery movement.
\par Answer: Olaudah }{\b Equiano}{ or Gustavus }{\b Vassa}{
\par 2. The first prominent African-American novelist, he wrote the short story \ldblquote The Goophered Grapevine\rdblquote  in addition to the short story collections }{\i The Conjure Woman}{ and }{\i The Wife of the Youth and Other Stories of the Color Line
}{ and the novel }{\i The Marrow of Tradition}{.
\par Answer: Charles Waddell }{\b Chesnutt}{
\par 
\par 11. Identify the mathematician and astronomer, 30-20-10.
\par 30. Born in Minden, Germany, he spent most of his adult life as director of the K\'f6nigsberg Observatory, which he helped to construct.
\par 20. He was the first person to make an accurate measure of the distance to a star.
\par 10. His eponymous functions, the solutions of certain differential equations, are useful in determining heat flow and in wave theory.
\par Answer: Friedrich Wilhelm }{\b Bessel}{
\par 
\par 12. Four major historical figures died in the year 1838.  Name them from descriptions for the stated number of points.
\par 5. This Indian and leader of the Second Seminole War passed away.
\par Answer: }{\b Osceola}{
\par 5
/15. Five for one and fifteen for both: Two important French diplomats died.  One was a resilient politician who led the French delegation at the Congress of Vienna; the other a brilliant orator and the leader of the Parisian movement to establish the Thi
rd Republic.
\par Answers: Charles Maurice de }{\b Talleyrand}{ \endash P}{\cgrid0 \'e9}{rigord and Leon }{\b Gambetta}{
\par 10. This Spanish \ldblquote Butcher\rdblquote  had led a brutal repression of nationalists in Cuba.
\par Answer: General Valeriano }{\b Weyler}{
\par 
\par 13. 5-10-15 name these British saints.
\par 5. Though he fought the dragon in Lebanon, he is still England\rquote s patron saint.
\par Answer: Saint }{\b George}{
\par 10. Son of Ethelred II and Emma, he was the first king of England to touch for scrofula.  He also dedicated the rebuilt St. Peter\rquote s Cathedral in Westminster, finished only a week before his death.
\par Answer: Saint }{\b Edward the Confessor}{
\par 15. This 10}{\super th}{ century Anglo-Saxon saint was heralded at conception by the \ldblquote miracle of the candles.\rdblquote   He directed the early stages of the rebuilding of St. Peter\rquote s and the corresponding reformation of the 
monastic system before checking out.
\par Answer: St. }{\b Dunstan}{
\par 
\par 14. Identify the following networking protocols, 5-10-15.
\par 5. Developed by Xerox in 1976, it uses bus topology and the CSMA/CD protocol to regulate network traffic.  It is the most common form of local area network.
\par Answer: }{\b Ethernet}{
\par 10. This type of closed-loop local area network uses a sign to indicate network usage.  If a computer wishes to transmit information, it seizes the sign, marks it as in use, inserts the necessary information, and returns it to the network loop.
\par Answer: }{\b Token Ring}{ network
\par 15. This newly developed network standard has transfer speeds of up to 625 million bits per second and can be used for either local or wide area networks.  It derives its name its freedom from any sort of poll-receive data loop.
\par Answer: }{\b A}{synchronous}{\b  T}{ransfer }{\b M}{ode
\par 
\par 15. Answer the following about the history of law FTP each.
\par 1. Until 1957, the only form of diminished responsibility was to enter this plea, in which the party accused was stated to be \ldblquote laboring under such a defect of reason, from disease of the mind.\rdblquote 
\par Answer: }{\b insanity}{
\par 2. The rules for the plea of insanity were named after a crazed Scottish wood-turner, who mistakenly shot a secretary named Edward Drummond in 1843.  Name him and you\rquote ve named the rules.
\par Answer: }{\b McNaghten}{ Rules
\par 3. Most of the U.S. adopted the McNaghten Rules, but New Hampshire set different standards by allowing juries to set insanity standards in the case }{\i State v Pike}{.  Name this set of insanity rules, named after the presiding judge
 and his doctor friend.
\par Answer: }{\b Doe-Ray}{ tests (Judge Charles Doe and Isaac Ray)
\par 
\par 16. Answer the following related music questions FTP each.
\par 1. This Austrian-American composer created the choral suite }{\i Pierrot Lunaire}{ and the orchestral work }{\i Pell\'e9as and M\'e9lisande}{.
\par Answer: Arnold }{\b Sch}{\b\cgrid0 \'f6}{\b enberg}{
\par 2. Based on a poem by Richard Dehmel, this string sextet is about a woman admitting her infidelity and her lover\rquote s subsequent forgiveness.
\par Answer: }{\b Transfigured Night}{ or }{\b Verklarte Nacht}{
\par 3. Sch}{\cgrid0 \'f6}{enberg was married to Mathilde, the sister of his counterpoint teacher and fellow Austro-American composer.  This man is best known for operas like }{\i Es war einmal}{, }{\i Kleider machen Leute}{, and }{\i Der Zwerg}{.
\par Answer: Alexander von }{\b Zemlinsky}{
\par 
\par 17. Give the name of the term from physics FTP each.  All start with the same letter.
\par 1. The fundamental SI unit of thermodynamic temperature, it is defined as 1/273.16 of the thermodynamic temperature of the triple point of water.
\par Answer: }{\b Kelvin}{
\par 2. The sum of the potential differences encountered in a round trip around any closed ring in a circuit is zero.
\par Answer: }{\b Kirchhoff}{\rquote s}{\b  loop}{ rule
\par 3. If a salt is dissolved in water, the conductivity of the solution is the sum of two values \endash  one depending on the positive ions and the other on the negative ions.
\par Answer: }{\b Kohlrausch}{'s law (F. Kohlrausch)
\par 
\par 18. Answer the following about the political situation of Germany in 1848 FTP each.
\par 1. King Frederick William raised barricades in the street, beginning two weeks of unrest in which he had to salute corpses of murdered student protestors and parade about wearing the new German tricolor flag.  By what term is this unrest known?
\par Answer: }{\b March Days}{
\par 2. The National Assembly, consisting of some 800 members, first met at St. Paul\rquote s Church in this city.  The next year, the assembly drew up a constitution that also bore the city\rquote s name.
\par Answer: }{\b Frankfurt}{
\par 3. These two provinces were members of the German confederation, an arrangement that caused problems when Danish troops attempted to more tightly integrate them into Frederick VII\rquote s monarchy.
\par Answers: }{\b Schleswig}{ and }{\b Holstein}{ (}{\b both}{ required)
\par 
\par 19. Identify the John Steinbeck novel from clues FTP each.
\par 1. This 1941 novel draws on Steinbeck\rquote s undergraduate training as a marine biologist at Stanford and relates a tale of life on the ocean. 
He later reissued ten years later along with a biographical sketch of its co-author. Name either work for ten points.
\par Answer: The }{\b Sea of Cortez}{ or The }{\b Log of the Sea of Cortez}{
\par 2. His first novel, its subtitle describes it as a Life of Henry Morgan, Buccaneer, with Occasional References to History.
\par Answer: }{\b Cup of Gold}{
\par 3. An episodic 1945 novel, Steinbeck relates the stories of California workers.  Its sequel, }{\i Sweet Thursday}{, revisited many of the same popular characters.
\par Answer: }{\b Cannery Row}{
\par 
\par 20. Answer the following questions about the second bank of the U. S. FTP each.
\par 1. Who was the head of the second bank at the time of its dissolution?
\par Answer: Nicholas }{\b Biddle}{
\par 2. Who was James Madison\rquote s Secretary of the Treasury, who proposed its $50 million endowment?
\par Answer: Alexander J. }{\b Dallas}{
\par 3. Name either the first head of the bank, whose mismanagement prompted a Congressional inquiry, or his competent successor.
\par Answer: William }{\b Jones}{ or Langdon }{\b Cheves}{
\par 
\par 21. Answer the following related questions about classical music, 15-5 each.
\par 1. 15. This composer studied under Joseph Joachim in 1853 and composed works like the }{\i Alto Rhapsody}{.
\par       5. He is better known for }{\i Studies on a Theme by Paganini}{, the }{\i Tragic Overture}{, and }{\i Hungarian Dances}{.
\par Answer: Johannes }{\b Brahms}{
\par 2. 15.  This piece of music contains movements entitled \ldblquote We had built a Staly house,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Fox Ride,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Hochfeierlicher Landesvater.\rdblquote 
\par       5.  It was written for the University of Breslau to be played when he received an honorary diploma.
\par Answer: }{\b Academic Festival Overture}{
\par 
\par 22. Answer the following related questions about the Byzantine Empire FTP each.
\par 1. On December 12, 627, Heraclius I finally quelled the Persian menace at this battle, fought at the site of the second capital of the Assyrians centuries before.
\par Answer: Battle of }{\b Nineveh}{
\par 2. This ruler put down the Nika Insurrection in 532 with the help of Belisarius.
\par Answer: }{\b Justinian}{
\par 3. Perhaps the greatest warrior-emperor, he clashed with the Russian general Sviatoslav in the 970s.
\par Answer: }{\b John I Tzimisces}{
\par 
\par 23. You\rquote ve got a choice.  You can name the African capitals given a nation for five points each, or name the Asian countries from their capitals for ten per.
\par 1A. 10. Thimphu 
\par Answer: }{\b Bhutan}{
\par 1B. 10. Koror
\par Answer: Republic of }{\b Palau}{
\par 1C. 10. Vila
\par Answer: }{\b Vanuatu}{ (prompt on: New Hebrides)
\par 2A. 5. Malawi
\par Answer: }{\b Lilongwe}{
\par 2B. 5. Republic of Guinea
\par Answer: }{\b Conakry}{
\par 2C. 5. C}{\cgrid0 \'f4}{te d\rquote Ivoire
\par Answer: }{\b Yamoussoukro}{
\par 
\par 24. You will get the chance to identify an obscure Flemish artist for fifteen points and, if you do not answer correctly, will get the opportunity to name a contemporary Italian artist for five.
\par 1. 15. Similar in many ways to Roger van der Weyden, this native of Bruges is best known for peaceful works like the }{\i Shrine of St. Ursula}{ and the }{\i Altarpiece of the Virgin with Saints and Angels}{ in Bruges.
\par Answer: Hans }{\b Memling}{
\par        5.  Known for his scenes in the Sassetti Chapel, his works include the }{\i Miracle of the Child of the French Notary}{ and }{\i Old Man with a Young Boy}{, notable for the older figure\rquote s hideous schnoz.
\par Answer: Domenico del }{\b Ghirlandaio}{
\par 2. 15.  A contemporary of Albert van Ouwater, this Haarlem native was city painter of Leuven.  Known for his use of \ldblquote space pockets,\rdblquote  sleepy looking Madonnas, his famous works are the }{\i Infancy Altarpiece}{ and }{\i 
Last Supper Altarpiece}{.
\par Answer: Dieric (pronounced Dirk) }{\b Bouts}{
\par      5.  The teacher of Raphael, his best-known work is }{\i Christ Giving the Keys to St. Peter}{, located in the Sistine Chapel.
\par Answer: }{\b Perugino}{ or Pietro }{\b Vannucci}{
\par 
\par 25. Given a description of a French utopian socialist\rquote s theories, name him FTP each.
\par 1. This man, who fought in the American Revolution, believed in a scientific meritocracy that would forward industrialism.  He promoted the idea in his book }{\i The New Christianity}{.
\par Answer: Claude Henri de Rouvroy, Compte de }{\b Saint-Simon}{
\par 2. This man\rquote s socialist ideas were based around the social unit known as the phalanx.
\par Answer: (Francois Marie) Charles }{\b Fourier}{
\par 3. The author of }{\i Tribune of the People}{ and the head of the Conspiracy of the Equals, this communistic leader was guillotined in 1797.
\par Answer: Francois Noel \ldblquote Gracchus\rdblquote  }{\b Babeuf}{
\par 
\par 26. Answer the following questions about genetic research FTP each.
\par 1. Archibald Garrod postulated the link between genes and enzymes while studying what hereditary disease in which the patient\rquote s urine turned black when exposed to air?
\par Answer: }{\b alkaptonuria}{
\par 2. Stanford University geneticists George Beadle and Edward Tatum proved Garrod\rquote s hypothesis in 1941 by growing various mutated strains of mold upon what foodstuff?
\par Answer: }{\b bread}{
\par 3. The link between genes and enzymes is accomplished through the production of what chemical substance, the twenty different types of which can combine to produce a nearly infinite number of different proteins.
\par Answer: }{\b amino acids}{
\par 
\par 27. Answer the following questions relating to a poem FTP each.
\par \ldblquote Steve Wienberg, returning from Texas
\par brings dimensions galore to perplex us
\par   But the extra ones all
\par   are rolled into a ball
\par so tiny it never affects us.\rdblquote 
\par 1. This short poem by Harvard physicist Howard Georgia cautions Nobel laureate Wienberg a
bout the difficulties of measuring unseen dimensions of space/time.  This cautionary notice was given in reference to what recently rejuvenated 60-year-old theory of the multidimensionality of matter?
\par Answer: }{\b Kaluza-Klein}{ theory or }{\b hyperspace}{ theory or }{\b G}{rand }{\b U}{nified }{\b T}{heory
\par 2. This theory attempts to reconcile gravity to the main body of quantum mechanical thought, known by what term?
\par Answer: }{\b Standard Model}{
\par 3. The Kaluza-Klein hyperspace theory unifies Einstein\rquote s gravitational field, Maxwell\rquote s electromagneti
c field, and the Yang-Mills weak-strong force field under this physical constant, often approximated to a value of 1 in creating Feynman diagrams.
\par Answer: }{\b Riemann metric tensor}{
\par 
\par 28. Give the name of the Friedrich Schiller work from a brief description FTP each.
\par 1. This tragedy follows the determined heroine Joan of Arc, varying the traditional story by placing Joan\rquote s death on the battlefield.
\par Answer: The }{\b Maid of Orleans}{
\par 2. Karl Moor feels cheated of his inheritance, and wreaks his vengeance with a band of compatriots.  This 1782 play ends when Moor turns himself over to local police.
\par Answer: The }{\b Robbers}{
\par 3. Actually a dramatic trilogy, it follows the rise and fall of a German mercenary during the Thirty Years\rquote  War.
\par Answer: }{\b Wallenstein}{
\par 
\par 29. Identify the following mathematicians of antiquity FTP each.
\par 1. He discovered the correct formula for the volume of a pyramid when not philosophizing with his teacher Leucippus.
\par Answer: }{\b Democritus}{ of Abdera
\par 2. His work with crescent-shaped figures bounded by arcs of circles gave rise to the famous problem of squaring the circle.
\par Answer: }{\b Hippocrates}{ of Chios
\par 3. This Greek mathematician wrote an eight-volume treatise on conic sections, expanding upon the discoveries of Menaechmus.  His treatise gave the names ellipse, parabola, and hyperbola to the various shapes he discussed.
\par Answer: }{\b Apollonius}{ of Perga
\par 
\par 30. Name the following things related to the study of semantics for fifteen points each.
\par 15. This hypothesis, named after an American anthropologist, postulates that language influences people\rquote s worldviews.
\par Answer: (Benjamin Lee) }{\b Whorf}{ hypothesis
\par 15. A type of formal semantics for languages, it uses \ldblquote square\rdblquote  and \ldblquote diamond\rdblquote  operators and intuitionist logic to deal with language.
\par Answer: }{\b Kripke}{ semantics OR relational semantics
\par }}