{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff30\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f30\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Monaco{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f169\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f170\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f172\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f173\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f174\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f175\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f176\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 
Default Paragraph Fo;}{\s20\ql \fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin720\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{
\s21\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{\s22\ql \fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin2160\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s23\ql \fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin2880\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{\s24\ql \fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin3600\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s25\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{\s26\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s27\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s28\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{
\s29\ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s30\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s31\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s32\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs33 
\additive _Equation Caption;}{\s34\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext34 header;}{\s35\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext35 footer;}{\*\cs36 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{
\s37\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext37 Body Text;}}{\info{\title 1996 ACF Regionals}{\author David M. Levinson}{\operator Matthew Weiner}
{\creatim\yr2001\mo2\dy3\hr23\min6}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy28\hr17\min56}{\version9}{\edmins22}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3322}{\nofchars18941}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws23260}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz950\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\transmf\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{

\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s34\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0 1996 ACF Regionals
\par Round by Illinois (the one attending the Michigan Regional)
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. This organization had three branches: intelligence, operations and research.  Created in June, 1942 and disbanded in October of 1945, it employed some 13,000 Americans, among whom was Allan Dulles and its only director, William "Wild Bill" Donovan.  Fo
r ten points name this forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul OSS}{\f0  or Office of Strategic Services 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 2. Formed by the confluence of the Biya and Katun Rivers in the foothills of the Altai Mountains, this chief river of the western Siberian 
lowlands is joined by its main tributary, the Irtysh, which makes it the fourth longest into the world.  For ten points name this Russian river which flows into the Kara Sea.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ob}{\f0  river
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 3. The nephew of Miss Agatha Gregson, this bumbling gentleman
 has appeared in such stories as The Purity of the Turf, Without the Option and Aunt Agatha Takes the Count, where he always seems to get into trouble.  For ten points name this P.G. Wodehouse character who is always saved by his unflappable valet, Jeeves
.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Bertram \lquote Bertie\rquote  }{\f0\ul Wooster}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 4. Discovered in 1898, they were named by Carl Brenda from the Greek for \lquote threads of cartilage\rquote .  They consist of an outer smooth membrane and a inner membrane with a series of folds.  For ten points name this cellular 
organelle most well remembered as the power house of the cell in which 95% of the cell\rquote s energy is released through cellular respiration.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Mitochondrion}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Mitochondria}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 5. Supposedly living in the ninth century B.C., his exploits are chronicled i
n 1 and 2 Kings, where during the reign of King Ahab and Jezebel, he opposed the worship of Baal.  For ten points name this Hebrew prophet who was rewarded with an ascent directly into heaven.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Elijah}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 6. Formerly chiefs of the Salians, this dynas
ty was named after its half legendary founder.  Clovis was the first member of the dynasty to rule large parts of Gaul and they held it until Dagobert I died in 683, though the dynasty lasted until the deposition of Childric III in 751.  For ten points na
me this Frankish royal family supposedly founded by Merovech.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Merovingians}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 7. Starting his career as writer of travel pieces, they were collected and published under the title The Cotton Kingdom.  He then changed careers and though his work of de
signing the Stanford Campus and the grounds of the US capitol, the profession of landscape gardener was changed to landscape architect.  For ten points name this man who was also the chief designer of New York\rquote s Central Park.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Frederick Law }{\f0\ul Olmstead\-}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 8. This machinist's son went to the University of California at Berkeley to study literature but changed his major to science, eventually gaining his Ph.D. under G. N. Lewis, joining the faculty of the university, and rising to become its chancellor i
n 1958.  In 1940 he helped to isolate the element plutonium, and studied the chemistry and physics of neptunium and plutonium in detail.  For 10 points, identify this American scientist who shared the 1951 Nobel Prize for Chemistry with E. W. McMillan for
 his discovery of transuranium elements, including americium, curium, berkelium, and californium. 
\par \tab \tab Answer:  Glenn T. }{\f0\ul Seaborg}{\f0 
\par 
\par 9. This novel tells of the old Breton monk Mael, who lands on an island and in his semiblindness fails to see that the inhabitant
s that he baptizes are not men.  This raises a furor in heaven, where it is decided that they must be turned into humans even though the animals have done nothing to deserve such a cruel fate.  For 10 points, name this satiric masterpiece of Anatole Franc
e.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Penguin Island}{\f0  or L'Ile des Pingouins
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 10. After being ordered by Pius V to remain silent, he angered Urban VIII with his foolish character of Simplicio who represented the Ptolemaic view in his book Dialogue on the Two Chief World Systems.  Fo
r ten points name this Italian who was then forced to recant his views on the Copernican system, but who still muttered \lquote and yet it moves\rquote  as he left.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Galileo}{\f0  Galilee or }{\f0\ul Galilei}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 11. He grew up on the Lower East Side of New York City and became i
nvolved with Tammany Hall politics.   Serving as a member of the New York  State Legislature from 1903 to 1915, his period as majority leader saw much reform legislation.  He then served as governor of New York for four, two-year-terms in the 1920\rquote 
s, before making history by being the first Catholic candidate to run on a major party ticket for President.  For ten points name this man who ran against Hoover in 1928.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Alfred E. }{\f0\ul Smith}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 12. At his death his newest opera The Wandering Scholar was not ready for publication so his daughter Imogen and her boss Benjamin Britten edited it for presentation, where along with his other works such as The Perfect Fool, At the Boar\rquote 
s Head and Egdon Heath, it was not well received.  For ten points name this English composer who did achieve fame with The Planets.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Gustav }{\f0\ul Holst}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 13. This work is based on the lives of two French clerics, Jean Baptiste Lamy and Joseph Machebeuf, who are known as Latour and Vaillant in the book.  They brave many adversities and b
uild a cathedral in the wilderness of New Mexico.  The story is narrated as Latour waits  for death as an old man looking back on his accomplishments.  For ten points name this masterpiece of Willa Cather.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Death Comes for the Archbishop}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 14. Elected czar by a Zemsky Sobor, or an Assembly of the Land, under the regency of Natalya Naryshkin, the Streltsy revolt forced him to become co-czar with Ivan V under the regency of Princess Sophia Miloslavsky.  For ten points name this \lquote great
\rquote  man who would go on to build the Russian Navy and defeat the Swedish during his solitary reign.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Peter I}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Peter the Great}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 15. Recent studies have shown that this chemical, contrary to previous studies, does not cause reduced fertility in those who were expose
d but it did reveal an increased incidence of nervous system defects in the children of exposed parents.  For ten points name this chemical known as 2, 4, 5-T, released in the Vietnam War\rquote 
s Operation Ranch Hand, in which it defoliated almost 4 million acres of Vietnamese forests.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Agent Orange}{\f0  or 2, 4, 5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 16. In one legend he was the child of Zeus and Persephone and was torn apart and eaten by the Titans, whom Zeus then destroyed with his thunderbolts.  From their remains arose the human race as well as this god\rquote 
s heart which Zeus then ate.  This leads into the more well known version, for then Zeus visited the mortal Semele whom he accidentally killed but not before rescuing their child whom he placed in his thigh.  For ten points name this Greek god of wine.

\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Dionysus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 17. Born in Akyab, Burma, this man moved to London in 1900 and became a correspondent for the Morning Post before turning to writing short stories, many of which feature the characters Reginald a
nd Clovis.  He then switched to novels, producing When William Came and The Unbearable Bassington, before joining the army where he was killed on the western front in 1916.  For ten points name this British author whose bizarre stories such as "Sredni Vas
htar" and "The Open Window" appeared in collections such as }{\f0\ul The Chronicles of Clovis}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Beasts and Super-Beasts}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Saki}{\f0  or Hector Hugh }{\f0\ul Munro}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 18. At least two have been discovered, PPL 15 and Teide 1, both of which are in the Pleiades s
tar cluster.  Both have a mass less than eight percent of our sun, the maximum for this type of object, but are much larger than Jupiter.  For ten points name this type of dwarf star, one whose mass is too low to ignite nuclear fusion and is instead heate
d by contraction.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Brown}{\f0  dwarf
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 19. The Civil War interfered with this poet\rquote s plans to attend graduate school in Germany and he served as a volunteer in the Confederate Army.  Captured in 1864 and imprisoned at Point Lookout, Maryland, he emerged f
rom the war with tuberculosis, which was to afflict him for the rest of his life.  In 1867 he published Tiger-Lilies, which contained some of the first real descriptions of southern life.  For ten points name this author of such works as The Revenge of Ha
mish, The Marshes of Glynn and The Song of the Chattahoochee.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Sidney }{\f0\ul Lanier}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 20. General J.F.C. Fuller attributes this man\rquote s unbroken string of successes, from his appointment as commander of Roman forces in Spain to his final battle, to \lquote Hellenic open-mindedness.\rquote 
  Elected to command at age 24, he drove the Carthaginians out of Spain at the battle of Ilipa in 206 BC.  For ten points name this Roman general best known for defeating Hannibal at the battle of Zama.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Publius Cornelius }{\f0\ul Scipio Africanus Major}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 
\par 21. Mechanicsville, Gaines\rquote  Mill, Savage\rquote s Station, Glendale and Malvern Hill were all engagements in this battle, one of the few in which the south suffered more casualties than the north.  For ten points name this battle, the first in w
hich Lee was given command of the Army of Virginia, which took one week for him to drive General McClellan\rquote s army from Richmond.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Seven Days}{\f0  battle
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 22. He studied medicine at the University of Virginia and at Bellevue Hospital in New York before 
entering the U.S. Army Medical Corps.  In 1881 he returned to the east and while near John Hopkins Medical School began his experiments on vaccines.  His major claim to fame occurred when during the Spanish-American War he was appointed head of the commis
sion that confirmed Carlos Finlay\rquote s hypothesis about the Aedes Aegypti mosquito.  For ten points name this man who then eradicated yellow fever from Cuba.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Walter }{\f0\ul Reed}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 23. Born in Les Andelys on the Seine, he moved to Rome in 1624 and returned to 
France only once where he abandoned a work for King Louis XIII after a disagreement.  His allegiance to the Bolognese tradition is revealed in the early work Inspiration of the Poet, 1628-1629.  Around 1630 he took severely ill and during his break from p
ainting formulated the theoretical basis of his art.  FTP name this artist whose primary fame rests upon his Rape of the Sabine Women.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Nicolas }{\f0\ul Poussin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 24. Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham, Ashley and Lauderdale.  After the fall of Clarendon in 166
7, the rule of England was temporarily taken over by these men, but the only thing they could agree on was religious toleration.  For ten points name this group, whose name is an acronym of the members.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Cabal}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1996 ACF Regionals
\par Round by Illinois (the one attending the Michigan Regional)
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Given a famous line or lines of English poetry, name the author of the line for five points the work in which it appears for an additional five points.
\par 1. \lquote What dire offense from amorous causes springs,/
\par What mighty contests rise from trivial things. 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Alexander }{\f0\ul Pope}{\f0 , The }{\f0\ul Rape of the Lock}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. \lquote It matters not how strait the gate, how charged with punishment the scroll. For I am the master of my fate, I am the Captain of my soul"
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: William Ernest }{\f0\ul Henley}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Invictus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. \lquote Theirs not to make reply, theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die:\rquote 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Alfred, Lord }{\f0\ul Tennyson}{\f0  and The }{\f0\ul Charge of the Light Brigade}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 2. In 1949 it was pointed out by the scientist who had named and popularized the idea of the \lquote big bang\rquote 
, that the best evidence to prove that the big bang had occurred would be the existence of an approximate 5 degree Kelvin residual background radiation which should come equally from all parts of the sky.  In 1964 
two scientists discovered a 3 degree background radiation and were awarded the 1978 Nobel Prize in Physics.  For ten points each name these three scientists have gone a long way in proving the big bang theory.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul Gamow}{\f0 , Arno }{\f0\ul Penzias}{\f0  and Robert }{\f0\ul Wilson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 3. Identify the American composer, 30-20-10.
\par 1. A great admirer of Toscanini, he once walked up to his home, was invited in and spent the day discussing music and singing the opera Orfeo with him.
\par 2. A voracious reader, the literature of England greatly influenced his works which can be seen from the titles such as Dover Beach, Music for a Scene from Shelley and The School for Scandal Overture.
\par 3. On November 5, 1938 he again had an experience with Toscanini when his Adagio for Strings premiered with the NBC Orchestra.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Samuel }{\f0\ul Barber}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par . Answer the following related questions for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For 5 points, what Muslim dynasty ruled India from the 16th to the 19th centuries?
\par \tab \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul Mogul}{\f0  dynasty
\par 2. For 10 points, what great-great-grandson of Tamerlane and 13th generation descendent of Genghis Khan conquered northern India due to the artillery he had acquired from the Turks and founded the Mogul dynasty?
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Babar}{\f0  or Babur
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. For 15 points, What man, the fifth ruler of the dynasty, is best known for one of his construction projects?
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Shah }{\f0\ul Jahan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page 5. For ten points each identify the following works by William Faulkner.
\par 1. Many critics believe this work to be Faulkner\rquote 
s masterpiece.  In it we again meet Quentin Compson.  Just before he leaves Mississippi to enter Harvard, he becomes involved in the story of Thomas Stupen, who had appeared out of nowhere seventy-six years before to erect a great plantation house.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Absalom, Absalom}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. This 1942 work mainly has to do with the fortunes of the McCaslin family.  It contains \lquote The Bear\rquote , one of Faulkner\rquote 
s most celebrated short stories, and in \lquote The Fire and the Heath\rquote , Faulkner introduces Lucas Beauchamp, his great black character.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Go Down, Moses}{\f0  and Other Stories
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. This 1954 work retells the story of Christ\rquote 
s passion as reenacted in the life of a corporal in the French Army in World War I.  It is probably his most ambitious work, but many critics felt his desertion of Yoknapatawpha county was a mistake.  
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: A }{\f0\ul Fable}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 6. Answer the following questions about thermodynamics.
\par 1. First pointed out by Constantin Caratheodory in 1909, this law of thermodynamics states that if system A is in thermal equilibrium with B, and if B is in equilibrium with C, then systems A and C must be in thermal equilibrium.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Zeroth}{\f0  Law of Thermodynamics
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. In one of the seminal works of thermodynamics, \lquote Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire and on Machines Appropriate to Develop that Power\rquote 
, this French scientist developed the Second Law of Thermodynamics as well as first stating his well known cycle of four reversible processes.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Sadi }{\f0\ul Carnot}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Represented by the letter A, this type of free energy is defined as the internal energy minus the product of the temperature and the entropy.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Helmholtz}{\f0  free energy
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 7. After the battle of Manassas the Confederates realized that they needed to give their generals a large amount of power and leeway to make decisions
, and thus they promoted five men to the rank of full general, while the Union had none.  For five points each and a five point bonus for all five name them.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Albert}{\f0  Sidney }{\f0\ul Johnston}{\f0 , Samuel }{\f0\ul Cooper,}{\f0  Robert E. }{\f0\ul Lee}{\f0 , Joseph }{\f0\ul Johnston}{\f0  and P.G.T. }{\f0\ul Beauregard}{\f0 
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following Muslim sects from a description.
\par 1. Including virtually all of the population of Iran and most of Iraq, this sect whose most important group is the Twelver, considers Ali, son-in-law to Mohammed, to be the first Imam.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Shiites}{\f0  or Shi\rquote is
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
2. Also known as the unitarians, this movement which gained prominence when it was adopted by King ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia, believes that legal decisions must be based on the Koran and that music, gold, telephones and poetry are evil.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Wahhabi}{\f0  or Muwahhidun
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
3. Believing in transmigration of souls, monogamous marriages and religious assembly on Thursdays, this sect which was founded by Ismail al-Darazi around 1000 AD has about 500,000 members living in Syria and Lebanon.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Druze or }{\f0\ul Druse}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 
\par 9. Martin Scorsese is one of America\rquote s finest film directors.  I'll name some stars of a Scorsese picture and you name the film.
\par 1. Five points.  Robert DeNiro, Joe Peseci, Ray Liotta and Paul Sorvino.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Goodfellas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. Ten points.  Paul Newman, Tom Cruise and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Color of Money}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Fifteen points.  Griffen Dunne, Rosanna Arquet and Linda Fiorentino.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul After Hours}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page 10. Answer the following questions concerning medical disorders which affect the immune or lymphatic system for 10 points each.
\par 1. What disorder, often abbreviated SLE and taking its name from the Latin for "wolf," is an autoimmune, inflammatory disease of the connective tissue which occurs mostly in young women?
\par \tab \tab Answer: systemic }{\f0\ul lupus}{\f0  erythematosus
\par 2. David, the "bubble boy," died in 1984 from a rare disease known as SCID, in which both B and T cells are missing or inactive.  What does SCID stand for?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul severe combined immunodeficiency}{\f0 
\par 3. What disease, with Burkitt's the most important type of lymphoma, is a usually malignant neoplasm of the lymphatic tissue which occurs predominantly in young adults?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Hodgkin's}{\f0  Disease
\par 
\par 11. At the battle of Lepanto in 1571, the naval forces of the Holy League defeated the main Turkish fleet.  For fifteen points each, name the commanders of the two fleets.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Don John}{\f0  of Austria and }{\f0\ul Ali}{\f0  Pasha (or Pasha Ali Monizindade)
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 12. Identify the person, 30-20-10.
\par 1. Even though he failed the 3rd, 7th and 9th grades, he graduated from the University of Georgia with a Ph.D. in Economics and became a professor at Texas A & M.
\par 2. After losing his first election, a primary against Senator Lloyd Bentsen, he was elected to the House in 1978 as a Democrat for Texas, but he switched parties when he was kicked off the House Budget Committee for conspiring with Reagan\rquote 
s budget director, David Stockman.
\par 3. He was elected to the Senate in 1984, and Texas law would have allowed him to run for his third term even if he had gotten the GOP presidential nomination.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: William Philip }{\f0\ul Gramm}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 13. Identify the British authors of the following works written in the 18th century.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-7200\li7200\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin7200\itap0 {\f0 1. She Stoops to Conquer.\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Oliver }{\f0\ul Goldsmith}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. The Rivals\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Richard Brinsley }{\f0\ul Sheridan}{\f0 
\par 3. An Account of the Life of Mr. Richard Savage\tab \tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Samuel }{\f0\ul Johnson}{\f0 
\par 
\par 14. Identify the following concerning the feats of the mythological hero Theseus for 15 points each.
\par 1. Another of the people whom Theseus met and killed was this man who forced people to wash his feet near the edge of a cliff and then kicked them off where they were devoured by a turtle.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sciron}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
2. Upon his arrival in Athens, this sorceress of Colchis and wife of the king attempts to kill him by having him retame the Cretan bull so that he cannot become heir to the throne over her own son, Medus.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Medea
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 15. Identify the following about the reign and life of Henry VIII of England for ten points each.
\par 1. Having his named derived from the French for \lquote son of a king\rquote , he was Henry\rquote s illegitimate son by Elizabeth Blount.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Henry }{\f0\ul Fitzroy}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. This successor to Henry was his only legitimate son.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Edward VI}{\f0 
\par 3. Thomas Cromwell, Henry\rquote s chief advisor, was executed partially for convincing Henry that he needed to marry this German princess, whom Henry found to be quite ugly.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Anne}{\f0  of }{\f0\ul Cleves}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 16. Answer the following questions about the prevailing wind patterns of the earth.
\par 1. Five points.  Located at around 30 degrees latitude, this region is noted for its calm air and is named for the fact that sailors threw the animals onboard into the ocean in an attempt to lighten the boat.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Horse}{\f0  latitudes
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. Ten points.  Lying between the equator and 30 degrees, in the northern hemisphere these winds blow towards the equator from the northeast.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Trade}{\f0  winds
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Fifteen points.  Named aft
er the 18th century meteorologist who postulated them, these cells are a rotating mass of wind which first rises, then drifts towards the poles for several hundred miles, then sinks and returns to where it started from.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Hadley}{\f0  cell
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 17. Identify the following famous Italian architects on a 15-5 basis.
\par 1. 15: He designed the Pazzi Chapel for the Pazzi family in Santa Croce in Florence and also designed the nave and choir for the church of San Lorenzo in Florence.
\par     5: He made his fame immortal by losing a competition in 1402 to Lorenzo Ghiberti for the rights to design the doors for the Baptistery in Florence, which caused him to give up sculpture.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Filippo }{\f0\ul Brunelleschi}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. 15: He was responsible for the design of the facade of the Palazzo Rucellai in Florence and the Malatesta Temple in the Church of San Francisco in Florence.
\par     5: He is probably most famous for his three treatises On Painting, On the Statue and On the Art of Building.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Leonbattista }{\f0\ul Alberti}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 18. Answer the following questions related to the election of 1844 for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5) What man, the first dark horse candidate to win, was elected president of the United States?
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: James }{\f0\ul Polk}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. (10)  What former president did James Polk defeat to gain the Democratic nomination for the presidency?
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Martin }{\f0\ul Van Buren}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. (15)  What Whig candidate did Polk defeat, mainly because he flip-flopped his position on the annexation of Texas and Oregon?
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Henry }{\f0\ul Clay}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 19. Identify the following countries on a ten, five basis.  Ten points if you get it from a list of major cities, and five points if you need the capital.
\par 1.\tab 10: Valparaiso, Concepcion and Vina del Mar\tab 
\par \tab 5: Santiago.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Chile}{\f0 \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2.\tab 10: Tampere, Turku and Espoo\tab \tab 
\par \tab 5: Helsinki.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Finland}{\f0 \tab 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3.\tab 10: Lodz, Wroclaw and Poznan\tab \tab 
\par \tab 5: Warsaw.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Poland}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 20. Given the name of a person a Roman or Italian writer was in love with and for whom he composed his works, name the writer.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-7200\li7200\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin7200\itap0 {\f0 1. Five points, Beatrice.\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Dante}{\f0  Alighieri
\par }\pard \qj \fi-6480\li6480\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin6480\itap0 {\f0 2. Five points, Laura.\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Petrarch}{\f0  or Francesco Petrarca

\par 3. Ten points, Corrina.\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ovid}{\f0  or Publius Ovidius Naso
\par }\pard \qj \fi-7920\li7920\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin7920\itap0 {\f0 4. Ten points, Lesbia or Clodia Pulcher.\tab Answer: Gaius Valerius }{\f0\ul 
Catullus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 
\par Identify the following embarrassing incidents in US naval history.
\par 1. In 1968 this Skipjack class submarine was on routine patrol in the Mediterranean when it went missing due to an internal explosion.  Several months later the bathyscaph Trieste spotted the intact hull on the sea bed near the Azores.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: USS }{\f0\ul Scorpion}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. During this submarine\rquote 
s initial trials off the coast of Nantucket in 1963, a weakened pipe joint burst in the engineering spaces, causing massive flooding and the loss of the entire crew.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: USS }{\f0\ul Thresher}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s37\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 3. This incident named after the participating US carrier, occurred when the carrier\rquote 
s battle group was ordered to sail to Vietnam in 1969.  It was decided to test the Russian submarine that was \tab following them and when the November class vessel was able to easily keep up with the fleet at 30 k
nots, the US navy was profoundly embarrassed.
\par }\pard\plain \qj \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 \f30\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Enterprise}{\f0  Incident
\par }}