{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff6\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f30\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f31\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f33\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f34\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f35\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f36\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f37\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar
\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 
Default Paragraph Fo;}{\s20\ql \fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin720\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{
\s21\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{\s22\ql \fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin2160\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s23\ql \fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin2880\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{\s24\ql \fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin3600\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s25\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{\s26\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s27\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s28\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{
\s29\ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s30\ql \fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin720\lin1440\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s31\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s32\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs33 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1996 ACF Regionals}{\author David M. Levinson}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2001\mo2\dy3\hr23\min7}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy28\hr17\min55}{\version7}{\edmins5}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2679}{\nofchars15273}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws18756}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz950\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\transmf\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{

\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 \page }{\b\f0 1996 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Western Michigan University
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  Sir Henry Maine once remarked that he didn't know of a single law reform that couldn't be tra
ced to this man's influence.  Born in London in 1748, he was trained for the law, but devoted his life to correcting faults in the social, legal, and political system.  His beliefs were based in the idea that happiness for all beings is the ultimate ethic
al goal.  For 10 points, name this  philosopher who along with Mill and others was a founder of Utilitarianism.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Jeremy }{\f0\ul Bentham}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 2.  Among his 447 concertos, two were written for mandolins and 38 for bassoon.  For many years, he was 
remembered only for the fact that Bach made several transcriptions of his work.  From 1704 to 1740, he was musical director at a Venetian orphanage, and then died in that year.  For 10 points, name this Italian composer, whose most famous concertos are th
e four that are named for "The Seasons"
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Antonio }{\f0\ul Vivaldi}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 3. He denounced the Constitution as \'93a covenant with death and an agreement with hell\'94, and was nearly killed by a Boston mob in 1835 for his vehement denouncing of slavery.  For 10 points na
me this fiery American abolitionist and founder of The Liberator.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: William Lloyd }{\f0\ul Garrison}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 4. It is prepared in concentrated form by several synthetic processes such as the reaction of methyl alcohol and carbon monoxide or by the oxidation of aceta
laldehyde.  It is miscible in all proportions with water and in pure form is called glacial, because it freezes at slightly below ordinary room temperature.  For 10 points, what is this colorless liquid with formula CH}{\f0\sub 3}{\f0 
COOH that in low concentrations is called vinegar.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul acetic acid}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul ethanoic}{\f0  acid
\par 
\par 5.  He was killed by Joab, one of his father's generals, because he plotted against good ole dad.  Before this affair, he himself killed his half brother Amnon due to Amnon's involvement in an incestuou
s relationship with his sister, Tamar.  For 10 points, name this one time favorite son of Kind David whose story is told in Second Samuel 13-19 and whose name may remind you of a William Faulkner novel.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Absalom}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 6. His reputation as a poet in the 19}{\f0\super t}{\f0 h century in his country was exceeded only by Pushkin's, and he set many of his works in the Caucasus.  His most famous poems include \'93Angel\'94, \'93Demon\'94, \'93The Novice\'94, and \'93
The Testament\'94.  For 10 points name this Russian whose only completed novel is entitled }{\f0\ul A Hero of Our Time}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Mikhail Yuryevich }{\f0\ul Lermontov}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page 7.  Antarctic explorer Paul Siple coined this term in a dissertation on how to protect explorers in extremely cold climates.    It is a general indicator of how many calories of heat are lost
 from the body surface upon exposure to extreme weather.  For 10 points, give this two-word term for a value calculated from air temperature and wind speed, often used by TV weather reporters encouraging us Northerners to stay warm.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul wind chill}{\f0  (factor or index).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 8.  In 1887, he was admitted to the bar and later that year joined a St. Paul law firm.  Around the turn of the century, he served as special counsel for the U.S. government in antitrust litigation against the Standard Oil Company.  It wa
s on March 4, 1925 that we was appointed as Coolidge's Secretary of State.  For 10 points, name this man who won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1929 for his work on a famous pact with Aristide Briand. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Frank }{\f0\ul Kellogg}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 9.  He associated with intellectuals s
uch as the Generacion del 27 and artists such as Salvador Dali.  Born in 1898, his death came when he was brutally shot by Falangist soldiers in the opening days of the Spanish Civil War.  For 10 pointsnname this author of Lament for the Death of a Bullfi
ghter and Gypsy Ballads who is probably Spain's best-known modern poet.
\par  \tab     Answer: Federico }{\f0\ul Garcia Lorca}{\f0 
\par 
\par 10. He became ruler of the northern part of his empire upon the death of his father, Huayna Capac, in 1527, and wrested the southern portion from hi
s half-brother Huascar.  Although promised his freedom in exchange for a huge ransom of gold and silver, he was executed anyway.  For 10 pointsnname this final Incan emperor.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Atahualpa}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 11.  Bernardo de Galvez ca
ptured this U.S. city in 1779, and it wasn't until 1810 that Americans regained control there.  With a population of about 220,000, this southern city contains the Anglo-American art museum, the firefighters museum, and the Louisiana arts and science cent
er.  Located on the Mississippi River about 80 miles northwest of New Orleans, its name is French for nbig stickn.  For 10 points, name this capital of Louisiana.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Baton Rouge}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 12. In biochemical genetics, this adjective describes the manner in whic
h new DNA molecules are synthesized, using the separated strands of pre-existing duplex DNA as templates.    For 10 points, give this term describing DNA replication, which sounds like it could do equal justice to someone who's only half Republican. 

\par \tab \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul semiconservative}{\f0 .
\par 
\par 13. The hero is Mr. Abel, who tells the story of his love with an ethereal maiden whose jungle upbringing has brought her close to the powers and beauty of nature.  Just as he awakens her emotions of love, he is killed by wild sava
ges.  For 10 pointsnname this story featuring Rima the Bird Girl, written by William Henry Hudson.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Green Mansions}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 14. Originally, it referred to a document bearing military orders, but then evolved into meaning a label attached to something for 
description or identification.   Later, it referred to notices that set down the proper forms to be observed at court.  For 10 points, name this French word which still today refers to proper behavior, although not only at court.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Etiquette}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 15. O
ne version of it was founded in 1880 in Chicago as a literary review forum, and moved to New York in 1918.  Another version was published from 1959 to 1962 in the same city by James Silberman.  Much before that, in 1860, Moncure Conway edited an incarnati
on for a year.  However, its most famous version was published quarterly from 1840 to 1844 and edited first by Margaret Fuller and next by Emerson.  For 10 points, name this New England based transcendentalist publication.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Dial}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page 16. Shell, quick, merge, selection, heap, and bubble.  All are types of, for 10 points, what type of computer programming algorithm?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul sort}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul sorting}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 17.  After losing interst in his studies at the University of Leiden, he began studying art and by the age of
 22 was so highly regarded that he began taking his own pupils.   For 10 points, identify this 17th century master of the chiarascuro whose works include Portrait of Nicolaes Ruts, The Jewish Brde, and The Night Watch.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Rembrandt}{\f0  van Rijn
\par 
\par 18. He 
began as an ardent Zionist, which he wrote about in Arrow in the Blue.  He then became a Communist and was sentenced to death while covering the Spanish Civil War, which he wrote about in Spanish Testament.  His loss of faith in Communism is the basis for
 The Invisible Writing, while an examination of Yoga and Zen is the center for The Lotus and the Robot.  For 10 pointsnname this versatile Hungarian-born English novelist, most famous for Darkness at Noon.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f0\ul Koestler}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 19.   This man was  ed
ucated in theology at the seminary of Saint Sulpice in 1779.  One year later , he became abbot of Saint Denis and was appointed agent-general of the French clergy.  He resigned his post after subscribing to the new civil constitution and was later excommu
nicated.   After this, the French sent him to England in 1792 where he negotiated an  informal alliance.  FTP name this man more famous as foreign minister  under Napoleon and for representing France in the Congress of Vienna.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer:  Charles Maurice de }{\f0\ul Talleyrand
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 20. It was said that he could see for one hundred miles by day or night, that he slept less than a bird, and could hear the grass grow.  He possessed the mighty Gjallarhorn, whose blast could be heard throughout the universe.  For 10 pointsnnam
e this White God with the Golden Teeth, guardian of the rainbow bridge Bifrost in Norse mythology.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Heimdall}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 21. There are approximately 120 million of them in Russia, which is causing quite a bit of unrest.  Since a new version is soon to be rele
ased, millions of Russians fear that their old ones will no longer be valid.  They are, for ten points, what denomination of U.S. currency, which will feature an enlarged picture of Ben Franklin?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul 100 dollar}{\f0  bill  #22
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 22. Born in 1904, she first appeared at the Metropolitan Opera in }{\f0\ul Lucia di Lammermoor}{\f0 
 in 1931.   She remained a principal soprano there for thirty years.  However, she wasn't averse to making use of modern media, as she also performed on radio, on television, and in several films 
prior to her death in 1976.   For 10 points, name this French-American coloratura soprano.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  Lily }{\f0\ul Pons}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 \page }{\b\f0 1996 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Western Michigan University
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.   Answer the following questions about the Francs FSTP.  
\par 1.  For 5 points name the Frankish king who expanded the kingdom by defeating the Visigoths and the Burgundians in the 6}{\f0\super th}{\f0  century. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Clovis}{\f0 
\par 2.  For 10 points, name his wife who was a major influence in his conversion to Christianity.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: St. }{\f0\ul Clotilda }{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3.  For 15 points, name Clovis\rquote s father
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Childeric}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 2. Identify the authors of the following works all published in the 1930s for 5 points each.
\par 1. Butterfield 8\tab \tab \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul O'Hara}{\f0 
\par 2. Tortilla Flat\tab \tab \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Steinbeck}{\f0 
\par 3. The African Queen\tab \tab Answer: C.S. }{\f0\ul Forrester}{\f0 
\par 4. Pylon\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul Faulkner}{\f0 
\par 5. The Last of Mr. Norris\tab Answer: Christopher }{\f0\ul Isherwood}{\f0 
\par 6. Judgement Day\tab \tab \tab Answer: James T. }{\f0\ul Farrell}{\f0 
\par 
\par 3. Italy is divided into 20 political subdivisions called regions.  Identify the region from a brief description for ten points each.
\par 1. It lies on the western coast of Italy between the Tyrrenhian and Ligurian seas.  The city of Pisa is here, and the island of Elba lies just off the coast.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tuscany}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. The Ticino River is on the west, and the Mincio on the east.  Milan is the capital of this region.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Lombardy}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. One of this region's neighbors is the region of Molise, which became separate in 1963.  The highest point in the Apennines is here, the 9,560 foot Mt. Corno.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Abruzzi}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 4. In 1973, the Nobel Prize in Physiology went to three researchers:two Austrian, one Dutch for their studies of animal behavior and its evolutionary basis.  For 10 points each, name these three pioneers of the science of ethology.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answers:  Karl }{\f0\ul von Frisch}{\f0 , Konrad }{\f0\ul Lorenz}{\f0 , Nikolaas (Niko) }{\f0\ul Tinbergen}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page 5. For 10 points each, identify these former justices of the U.S. Supreme Court.
\par 1. Though three attempt were made to impeach him, he never was and became the longest serving justice in the court's history.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: William O. }{\f0\ul Douglas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. Named to the court in 1796, in 1804 he became the first justice impeached by  the House of Representatives.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Samuel }{\f0\ul Chase}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Though he was appointed Chief Justice in 1795, he was never confirmed by the Senate, and thus Oliver Ellsworth is often considered the second Chief Justice.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Rutledge}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 6. For 10 points each, name the Eugene Ionesco play being described. 
\par 1. A burlesque of the nonsensical stuffiness of a middle-class English home, characters without identify repeat empty gestures and banal commonplaces in a mock-serious, tragi-comic parody of existence.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Bald Soprano}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul La Cantatrice Chauve}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. It caricatures a professor and his student's attempt to communicate through a very arbitrary yet absurdly logical language.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Lesson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. A man is caught by the fear of remaining a human being when his fellow citizens are becoming animals.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Rhinoceros}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 7. Identify the following 19th century artists from one work for 10 points, given a second for 5 points.
\par 1.\tab 10 pts: At the Nouveau Cirque\tab 
\par \tab 5 pts: At the Moulin Rouge
\par \tab \tab Answer: Henri de }{\f0\ul Toulouse-Latrec
\par }{\f0 2.\tab 10 pts: the sculpture, Balzac\tab 
\par \tab 5 pts: The Thinker
\par \tab \tab Answer: Auguste }{\f0\ul Rodin}{\f0 
\par 3.\tab 10 pts: The Night Cafe\tab \tab 
\par \tab 5 pts: View from Arles with Irises
\par \tab \tab Answer: Vincent }{\f0\ul Van Gogh}{\f0 
\par 
\par 8. 30-20-10 Identify this figure from world history.
\par 1. He designated his son Chen-Chin to be his succesor.
\par 2. In 1267, he moved his capital from Ta-Tu to what is now Beijing.
\par 3. In 1271, he founded the Yuan or Mongul dynasty.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kublai Khan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page 9. Answer the following about William Jennings Bryan and his failed presidential bids for the stated number of points.
\par 1. Bryan was defeated for the presidency three times.  For five points each, name the men who beat him each time.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul McKinley}{\f0  (1896) }{\f0\ul McKinley }{\f0  (1900) and }{\f0\ul Taft}{\f0  (1908)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. In 1904, Bryan wasn't even nominated.  For 10 points, name the Democrat who ran against Teddy Roosevelt and lost.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Alton }{\f0\ul Parker}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Bryan delivered his ncross of goldn speech at the 1896 Democratic National Convention.  For five points, in what city was it delivered?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Chicago}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 10.  It is inhabited by a race of horses endowed with virtue and reason, and is thus an embodiment of all that is good in mankind.  For 15 points each:
\par 1. Name this fictional country visited by Lemuel Gulliver.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Houyhnhnmland (nWhinnimlandn)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. Name the sujecated race in Houyhnhnmland, an inferior race of filthy, loathsome brutes that Gulliver physically  resembles, but is repulsed by.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Yahoos
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 11. Give the following terms from music.  All begin with the letter "L".
\par 1.  Usually denoting a song from the Romantic period, this term is often used by English-speaking musicians to describe any song with German text.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Lied}{\f0  (singular) or }{\f0\ul Lieder}{\f0  (plural).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2.  In opera and in some instrumental music, this is a recurring short theme which symbolizes the presence of a character, thing, place, or idea.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Leitmotiv}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Leitmotif}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3.  Also used to describe spoken prayers, this term can describe a prayer sung or chanted, usually alternating with a response from the congregation.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul litany}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 12. Identify these inventors from the telecommunication industry for ten points each.
\par 1. He installed the first radio stations for the U.S. navy and invented several amplifiers, including the audion.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Lee }{\f0\ul Deforest}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. A Russian by birth, he patented the television transmission tube and television receiver in 1923 and 1924, respectively.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Vladamir }{\f0\ul Zworykin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Before jumping off a building to his death in 1954, this American invented the superheterodyne receiver, and is credited with discovering FM radio.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Edwin Howard }{\f0\ul Armstrong}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 13. Identify the author from works 10-5.
\par 1. 10 pts: After Leaving Mr. Mackenzie\tab 5 pts: Wide Sargasso Sea
\par \tab \tab Answer: Jean }{\f0\ul Rhys}{\f0 
\par 2. 10 pts: Earthly Powers\tab \tab 5 pts: A Clockwork Orange
\par \tab \tab Answer: Anthony }{\f0\ul Burgess}{\f0 
\par 3. 10 pts: Brighton Rock\tab \tab 5 pts: The Power and the Glory
\par \tab \tab Answer: Graham }{\f0\ul Greene}{\f0 
\par 
\par \page 14. In October of 1995, a French mercenary tried for the third time to take over a small group of islands located off the east coast of Africa.  For 10 points each:
\par 1. In what islands near Madagascar did the coup take place?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Comoros}{\f0  Islands
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. What is the captial of the Comoros?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Moroni}{\f0 
\par 3. In what narrow body of water do the Comoros lie?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Mozambique channel}{\f0 
\par 
\par 15.  Answer the following questions about film for 10 points each.
\par 1. Pather Pancahli is the first film in what Asian director's Apu trilogy?
\par \tab \tab Answer: Satyajit }{\f0\ul Ray}{\f0 
\par 2. Raymond Massey and James Dean starred in what Elia Kazan directed film based on a Steinbeck novel?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul East of Eden}{\f0 
\par 3. Gordon MacRae, Shirley Jones and Shirley Graham starred in what 1955 Fred Zinneman screen adaptation of a Rodgers and Hammerstein musical?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Oklahoma!}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16. In which cell organelle or strucuture, for 10 points each,  would you find each of the following materials or structures?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-5040\li5040\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\f0 1. cristae (KRIS-tee).\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul mitochondria}{\f0 
\par 2. thylakoids (THY-luh-koyds)\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul chloroplasts}{\f0 
\par 3. chromatin (KROW-mah-tin)\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul nucleus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 17. Answer the following questions about a certain mythological figure for ten points each.
\par 1. First, name the handsome young shepherd whom Zeus offered perpetual youth on the condition that he remain asleep forever.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Endymion}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. Name the Greek goddess of the moon who had fallen in love with Endymion as he lay sleeping.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Selene}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. On what mountain was Endymion sleeping when he was espied by Selene?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Mount }{\f0\ul Latmos}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 18. Identify these philosophical doctrines for ten points each.  
\par 1. Originating with the Vienna Circle and Ludwig Wittgenstein, it is marked by t he verification principle, which says that any meaningful proposition has to be verifiable by means of observation.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Logical Positivism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. Originated by Edmund Husserl
, it is devoid of all presuppositions and describ es phenomena by focusing exclusively on them, to the exclusion of all questions of their casual origins.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Phenomenology}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Coming from the Greek for nexperiencen, its basic thesis is that legitimate
 human knowledge arises from what is provided to the mind by the senses or by introspective awareness through experience.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Empiricism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par \page 19. Answer these questions about the travels of Ferdinand Magellan, for 10 points each.
\par 1.  First, to within 5 years, in what year did Magellan's fleet begin its circum navigation of the globe?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul 1519}{\f0  (accept anything between }{\f0\ul 1514}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul 1524}{\f0 .)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. Second, in what modern-day country is the site of Magellan's death?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Philippines}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. Third, what young Spanish king, later Holy Roman Emperor, signed the agreement underwriting Magellan's voyage?
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Charles I or Carlos I}{\f0  of Spain or Holy Roman Emperor }{\f0\ul Charles V}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
\par 20. Identify these figures from Vichy France for ten points each.  
\par 1. Called the \'93Hero of Verdun\'94, he headed the Vichy government throughout World War II.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Henri Philippe }{\f0\ul Petain}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. He was dismissed in December 1940, and then recalled in 1942 to serve as Vice-Premier of Vichy France.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Pierre }{\f0\ul Laval}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. This admiral replaced Laval when he was dismissed in 1940.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Jean }{\f0\ul Darlan}{\f0 
\par 
\par 21. Given a description, name the economist for 15 points each.
\par 1. He served as Queen Elizabeth I's financial agent at a time when English curre ncy was at one of its lowest value.  He then determined that nbad money drives out good.n
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Sir Thomas }{\f0\ul Gresham}{\f0 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 2. He served as ecomonic advisor to the League of Nations Secretariat from 1936 to 1938 and shared the Nobel Prize in Economics with Ragnar Frisch in 1969.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f0 \tab Answer: Jan }{\f0\ul Tinbergen}{\f0 
\par }}