{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f215\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f216\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f218\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f219\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f220\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f221\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f222\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr15\min11}{\revtim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr15\min11}
{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2072}{\nofchars11812}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws14505}{\vern8247}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb576 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\b\f6\fs20 1996 ACF Nationals
\par Questions by ACFNTC #4A
\par }{\f6\fs20 
\par 1. Identify this actress 30-20-10.
\par 1. Her 1962 autobiography is entitled }{\f6\fs20\ul The Lonely Life.}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. In 1950, she played the character Margo Channing, who uttered the famous line, "Fasten your seatbelts; it's going to be a bumpy night."
\par 3. She won an Oscar in 1938 for her role in 'Jezebel.'
\par \tab \tab Answer: Bette }{\f6\fs20\ul Davis}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following Native American tribes for 10 points each.
\par 1.  Their territory encompassed northeast Oregon, southeast Washington and central Idaho.  They agreed to give up most of their land in 1855 for a reservation in and around the Wallowa Valley in Oregon.  They were later pushed
 off this land when gold was discovered, prompting a tribal uprising.
\par }\pard \qj \li1296\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\faauto\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {
\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Nez Perce}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
2.  Their friendship with early French explorers in the Northeast sent them to war with the Iroquois, in which they were miserably defeated.  By 1700, they had been largely displaced Westward;  only about 2000 are left in modern Canada.
\par }\pard \qj \li1296\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\faauto\rin0\lin1296\itap0 {
\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Algonquin}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
3.  This term actually refers to six culturally related tribes \'a5 the Kiowa, the Lipan, the Jicarilla, the Mescalero, the Chiricahua and the Western.  A nomadic people, they survived mostly on buffalo and raided invaders to their territory.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Apache}{\f6\fs20 
 (Note:  the "Kiowa" in question are called Kiowa Apache, not to be confused with another tribe of the same name)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
3. Evaluate the following limits and series for ten points apiece.  You will have 20 seconds for each part.  
\par 1. The limit as x goes to positive infinity of the quantity 1 plus 1 over x all raised to the xth power. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul e}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. The sum from n equals 0 to positive infinity of negative 1 to the nth power divided by the quantity 2n plus 1.   
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul pi/4}{\f6\fs20  
\par 3. The sum from n equals 1 to positive infinity of 1 over n times negative one to the n minus 1 power.               
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul ln 2}{\f6\fs20  or }{\f6\fs20\ul natural log of 2}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par 4. Have you read your Hemingway?  I hope so;  identify these Hemingway novels on a 5-10-15 basis:
\par 1.  5 pts: Robert Jordan fights with the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War, blows up a bridge and dies.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul For Whom the Bell Tolls}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 2.  10 pts:  Harry Mo
rgan turns to crime to support his family, and dies helping a gang of bank robbers escape.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul To Have and To Have Not}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
3.  15 pts:  This novel, written in a style reminiscent of Sherwood Anderson, is Hemingway's first.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul The Torrents of Spring}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 5. Identify the following female artists for 10 points each from short clues.
\par 1. This British abstract sublptor was friends with Henry Mmore and was early influenced by Arp. She was married to the abstract painter-sculptor Ben Nicholson.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Dame Barbara Hepworth
\par 2. She is famous for }{\f6\fs20\ul Judith with the Head of Holofernes}{\f6\fs20 , 1625\tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Artemesia}{\f6\fs20  or Artemesia }{\f6\fs20\ul Gentileschi}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. She created }{\f6\fs20\ul The Two Fridas}{\f6\fs20  (Free-das), 1939\tab \tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Frida }{\f6\fs20\ul Kahlo}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. Answer these questions about prominent figures in the Thirty Years War, 10 pts. each.
\par 1. He was the commander of the army of the Catholic League, and in 1630 became imperial commander.  He stormed Magdeburg, won victories in Bavaria and the Rhineland, but was defeated at Breitenfeld and mortally wounded at Lech in 1632.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Johannes }{\f6\fs20\ul Tilly}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. The son of Charles IX, he defeated Tilly and obtained Pomerania and several Baltic ports.  He was, however, tragically killed at Lutzen in 1632.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Gustavus II}{\f6\fs20  or }{\f6\fs20\ul Gustavus Adolphus}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. A Bohemian, he was imperial commander from 1623 to 1630.  He was involved in peace negotiations to end the war and was murdered in 1634, at the instigation of Emperor Ferdinand II.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Albrech von }{\f6\fs20\ul Wallenstein}{\f6\fs20 
\par }{\f4\fs20 \page }{\f6\fs20 7. Given the process by which a chemical in the top 50 produced in the U.S. is formed by industrial production, you name the chemical.  For five ponits apiece:
\par 1.  oxidation or dehydrogenation of methanol
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul formaldehyde}{\f6\fs20  or }{\f6\fs20\ul methanal}{
\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 2.  hydration of propylene 
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul isopropyl alcohol}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 3.  ammonia and carbon dioxide
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul urea}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 8. Identify these Russian writers from clues 10-5. 
\par 1. 10 pts:  He published his first poetry in 1913 while working in a chemical factory in the Urals.  His main livelihood was his translations, including Shakespeare, Goethe, Rilke and Paul Verlaine.
\par 5 pts:  }{\f6\fs20\ul My Sister Life}{\f6\fs20 , }{\f6\fs20\ul Safe Conduct}{\f6\fs20 , and }{\f6\fs20\ul Doctor Zhivago}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: Boris }{\f6\fs20\ul Pasternak}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
2. 10 pts:  In the 1960's, he and Andrei Voznesensky revived Soviet poetry.  His Most famous work was criticized for implying that the Soviet regime was anti-Semitic.  He published his memoirs, }{\f6\fs20\ul A Precocious Autobiography}{\f6\fs20 
, in 1963, and continued publishing controversial work, much of which is compiled in 1987's }{\f6\fs20\ul Almost at the End}{\f6\fs20 
\par 5 pts:  }{\f6\fs20\ul Babi Yar}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: Eugene }{\f6\fs20\ul Yevteshenko}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
3. 10 pts: Educated to be a physician, he gave up medicine for writing.  His The White Guard is set in Kyyiv.
\par 5 pts: The Master and Margarita
\par \tab \tab Answer: Mikhail }{\f6\fs20\ul Bulgakov }{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par 9. Although you may not know much about general relativity, hopefully your team will be able to answer the following questions concerning one of its famous manifestations, black holes. 
\par 1. (15) In equilibrium, only three properties of a black hole can be determined by an outside observer. For 5 points each name them.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul mass}{\f6\fs20  (do NOT accept weight), electric }{
\f6\fs20\ul charge}{\f6\fs20  and }{\f6\fs20\ul angular momentum}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 2. (5) Name the surface where outwardly traveling photons bare
ly escape the hole's gravity.  The circumference of this surface is 2 pi times the Schwarzchild radius.                            
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul event horizon}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. (10) Quantum mechanics allows black holes to evaporate by emitting particles from inside the event horizon. What is this radiation, named for the man who proposed it.                    
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Hawking}{\f6\fs20  radiation
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
10. Identify the following figures from the 1956 uprising in Hungary for ten points apiece.
\par 1. He lived for 15 years in Moscow before returning to his native Hungary to serve in the Communist government.  He served as premier between 1953 and 1955, but was forced out because he was too independent.  The revolutionaries turned to him to be premie
r again for their 1956 government.\tab \tab Answer: Imre }{\f6\fs20\ul Nagy}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2.  A confirmed Stalinist, this man was party secretary from 1949 through 1956.  He engineered the removal of Nagy in 1955, but was removed by Moscow himself in early 1956 to placate Marshall Tito.  He fled to the USSR during the revolution.\tab \tab 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Matyas }{\f6\fs20\ul Rakosi}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. Twice premier of Hungary and party secretary from 1956-1988, he was a member of Nagy's revolutionary government until the day the Soviets crushed it.  He deserted the revolutionaries an
d led the new Soviet government as premier until 1958.  He pursued decentralized economic management and liberal internal policies in the 1960's, and kept political surveillance to a minimum. \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Janos }{\f6\fs20\ul Kadar
}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par 11. Name these social movements for ten points apiece.
\par 1.  This movement opposed capitalism and expected that the working class would ultimately wage war to end it.  A prominent theme is that the state is by nature a tool of capitalism and was unaviodably inefficient and despotic.  Hence poli
tical means were not useful for bringing about the class war, and they focused on direct industrial action.  Leading theorists include Georges Sorel and Fernand Pelloutier.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Syndicalism}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. Derived from the a Latin word for a bundle of rods with an ax in it, this movement dominated much of Europe between 1919 and 1944.  The state is the center of life and the people were to unite unshakeably behind their leader, who would wield absolute p
ower.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Fascism}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. This movement was promoted by the likes of Henry Gannt and Thorstein Veblen and grew out of the Progressive movement in the 1920's and 30's.  It advocated turning the control of industry over to engineers and scientists so they co
uld manage things in the public interest.  A conference to promote the movement was held in New York in 1932 under Walter Rautenstrauch and Howard Scott.  The movement faded after 1940 amid fears of authoritarian social engineering.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Technocracy}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20 \page }{\f6\fs20 12. And now, for your absolutely huge American literature bonus. For five points each, given the title of each work and the year it was written, name the author.
\par 1. The Colossus (1960)\tab \tab Answer: Sylvia }{\f6\fs20\ul Plath}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. The New Colossus (1883)\tab \tab Answer: Emma }{\f6\fs20\ul Lazarus}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. So Big (1924)\tab \tab \tab Answer: Edna }{\f6\fs20\ul Ferber}{\f6\fs20 
\par 4. Giants in the Earth (1927\tab )\tab Answer: Ole }{\f6\fs20\ul Rolvaag}{\f6\fs20 
\par 5. The Titan (1914)\tab \tab \tab Answer: Theodore }{\f6\fs20\ul Dreiser}{\f6\fs20 
\par 6. Giant (1952)\tab \tab \tab Answer: Edna }{\f6\fs20\ul Ferber}{\f6\fs20  [Mod.: Yes, again.]
\par 
\par 13. Love sucks, as the writer of this question knows, having just broken up with her boyfriend.  So given a description of a pair of ill-fated mythological lovers, name them for five points per person. 
\par 1. The female was stung by a viper right after her wedding.  Her mate tried to bring her back from the world of 
the dead, on the condition that he could not look back at her before they reached the upper world.  He, of course, looked back and lost her forever.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Orpheus}{\f6\fs20  and }{\f6\fs20\ul Euridyce}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. These two set a date to elope.  The girl fled a lioness who threatened he
r at the meeting place, but left her cloak behind for the animal to tear to pieces.  The man saw the bloody shreds and killed himself; she came back, saw him dying, and killed herself as well.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Pyramus}{\f6\fs20  and }{\f6\fs20\ul Thisbe}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. This kind old man and woman were rewarded for showing hospitality to Apollo and Jupiter.  All their neighbors which had been mean to them were killed, and they were granted the right to die together.  Eventually they did so, turning into trees.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Baucis}{\f6\fs20  and }{\f6\fs20\ul Philemon}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par 14. Identify the following brain-altering chemicals for the stated number of points. 
\par 1. 5 pts: The generic name of this anti-depressant, manufactured by Lilly, is fluoxetine HCl               
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Prozac}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. 15 pts: Made in the body from tryptophan, this neurotransmitter is a key player in mediating behavior and moods. Its concentration in the brain is changed by such drugs as Prozac and Zoloft.           
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul serotonin}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 3. 10 pts:  This drug, first synthesized in 1938 by Alb
ert Hofmann, is thought to work by mimicing serotonin and blocking it from acting as a neurotransmitter. 
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul LSD}{\f6\fs20  or }{\f6\fs20\ul 
lysergic acid diethylamide}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
15. For ten points each, given a major Russian city, identify the river it lies on for ten points each. If you need more information about the river, you'll receive five points instead.
\par 1. 10 pts: Astrakhan
\par 5 pts: Running from northwest of Moscow to the Caspian sea, it is the longest river in Europe.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Volga}{\f6\fs20 
\par 2. 10 pts: Novosibirsk
\par 5 pts: It flows north and west across western Siberia, from the Altai Mountains in central Asia to a gulf of the same name which borders the Kara Sea. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Ob}{\f6\fs20 
\par 3. 10 pts: Krasnoyarsk
\par 5 pts: Over two thousand miles long, it flows from south to north across central Siberal, and lies between the Ob and the Lena.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Yenisey}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par 16. Identify the following books of the Bible for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 5 pts: Literarlly meaning "second law" it reiterates the Mosaic \tab  \tab \tab 
\par legislation and details the death of Moses
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Deuteronomy}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
2. 5 pts: By far the longest book of the Bible, it is thought that its 66  chapters represent the recorded sayings of 3 prophets, rather than one
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Isaiah}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 3. 10 pts: Called "an epistle of straw" by Luther, because of its claim tha
t  "Faith without works is dead," it is addressed to the church in  general and admonishes the rich to be liberal with their charity
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul James}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 4. 10 pts: The first of the minor prophetic writings, it tells of the \tab 
prophet's relationship with his unfaithful wife, Gomer, as a symbolic  parallel to the Israelite covenant
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Hosea}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \page }{\f6\fs20 
17. Charles Dickens' vivid characters are legendary.  Identify some of the female ones 5-10-15:
\par 1.  This bitter old women in }{\f6\fs20\ul Great Expectations}{\f6\fs20  has taught her daughter to hate men, and has the remains of her wedding cake rotting in a spare room.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: Miss }{\f6\fs20\ul Havisham}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 2.  In }{\f6\fs20\ul A Tale of Two Cities}{\f6\fs20 
, she is Dr. Alexander Manette's daughter, and wins the affection of Both Sidney Carton and Charles Darnay.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 Answer: }{
\f6\fs20\ul\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 Lucie}{\f6\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036  Manette
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 3.  }{\f6\fs20 
She is the daughter of Dr. Thomas Gradgrind, and marries Josiah Bounderby to help her brother Tom, but later falls under the influence of the amoral James Harthouse.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Louisa}{\f6\fs20  Gradgrind
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 18. Identify these Supreme Court cases for 10 points each.
\par 1. 5 pts: The court declared in this 1963 case that the state of Florida had denied a due victim his rights under the constitution by not providing free legal counsel to a man accused of a felony.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Gideon v. Wainwright}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 2. 10 pts: In this 1935 case, 
brought by a New York slaughterhouse, the Court ruled the National Recovery Act unconstitutional because it gave the executive branch lawmaking powers.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Schecter}{\f6\fs20  Poultry Corp. }{\f6\fs20\ul v. U.S.}
{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 3. 5 pts: The court decided in 1968 that the defendant had discri
minated against the plaintiff's application for admission into medical school by maintaining a 16 percent minority quota.  The "reverse discrimination" case was vague, and solved little.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul Bakke v. University of California Board of Regents}{
\f6\fs20  (Accept:  Bakke v. Board of Regents)
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
4. 10 pts: In this 1895 case the supreme court ruled that sugar refining was not interstate commerce and thus not subject to federal regulation.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f6\fs20\ul U.S. v. E.C. Knight}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1152\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 19. Name these female jazz singers, 5-10-15:
\par 1. 5 pts:  A professional at age fifteen, she toured with Artie Shaw, Count Basie, and Lester Young, who christened her "Lady Day".  She saw success with her 1939 record "Strange Fruit" and with the song "God Bless the Child that's Got His Own".
\par }\pard \qj \li1152\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1152\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1152\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: Billie }{\f6\fs20\ul Holiday}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1152\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
2.  10 pts:  An outstanding blues vocalist, she became on e of the first black professional blues singers,  In the first decade of this century, she performed with her husband "Pa" before hooking up with "Georgia Tom" Dorsey in the '20's.
\par }\pard \qj \li1152\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1152\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1152\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: "Ma" }{\f6\fs20\ul Rainey}{\f6\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1152\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 3.  A native of Newport News, VA, she worked with Chick Webb in the '30'

\par s, and pioneered the art of "Scat" singing.  Notable are the 19 "Song Books" she recorded in the '50's and '60's to preserve the works of Cole Porter, George Gershwin and others for posterity.
\par }\pard \qj \li1728\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin1728\itap0 {\f6\fs20 Answer: Ella }{\f6\fs20\ul Fitzgerald}{\f6\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx1008\tx1728\tx2592\tx3312\tx4176\tx4896\tx5616\tx6480\tx7200\tx8064\tx8784\tx9504\tx10368\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f6\fs20 
20. Identify the composers of the following works beginning with "M" for 10 points each.
\par }{\f6\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 1. }{\f6\fs20\ul\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 La Mer}{\f6\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036  \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Claude }{\f6\fs20\ul\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 Debussy}{
\f6\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 
\par }{\f6\fs20 2. }{\f6\fs20\ul Manon}{\f6\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Jules }{\f6\fs20\ul Massenet}{\f6\fs20 \tab 
\par 3. }{\f6\fs20\ul The Miraculous Mandarin}{\f6\fs20 \tab \tab Answer: Bela }{\f6\fs20\ul Bartok}{\f6\fs20 
\par }}