{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min2}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min5}{\printim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min5}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages14}{\nofwords3900}{\nofchars22233}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws27303}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\cgrid0 ACF Nationals 1996
\par Questions by Cornell B
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1. It's said that he died when the prioress of Kirkley allowed him to bleed to death.  Another legend about him said he was defeated at the Battle of Evesham fighting alongside Simon de Montfort.  He first appeared in a 1377 edition of }{\ul\cgrid0 
Piers Plowman}{\cgrid0 , and was also the subject of a 1510 epic poem, and was believed to be based on Robert Fitztooth, Earl of Huntingdon, outlawed for debt.  FTP, what legendary character is aided by Will Stutly, Allan-a-Dale and Will Scarlett?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Robin Hood}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. Head of the Mechanical Engineering department of the Board of Economic Warfare during 
WWII, he outlined his philosophy of anticipatory design by noting "I just invent, then I wait until man comes around to needing what I invented."  As a professor at Southern Illinois University, he established his World Game research team, which expanded 
his design principles.  FTP, identify the developer of the Airocean World Map, the Dymaxion Car, and the geodesic dome.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Richard Buckminster }{\ul\cgrid0 Fuller}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. It was less concerned with the breaking up of monopolies that it was with preventing the accumulat
ion of monopoly power.  It exempted labor from the Sherman Act, outlawed price discrimination, interlocking directorates, and exclusive dealing and tying contracts.  FTP, what was this 1914 piece of anti-trust legislation. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Clayton}{\cgrid0  Anti-Trust Act
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
4. His habit of kissing people indiscriminiately and his flirtations with the priesthood earned this composer the nickname "the philandering monk."  Though he composed much religious music, including his }{\ul\cgrid0 Mass for Saint Cecilia}{\cgrid0 
, it was his operas which earned him his greatest fame, beginning with }{\ul\cgrid0 Sappho}{\cgrid0  in 1850.  FTP, name this Frenchman known for his opera }{\ul\cgrid0 Faust}{\cgrid0  and his 'Funeral March for a Marionette."
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Charles }{\ul\cgrid0 Gounod}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
5. At his death in 1552, on the island of San-chian, he was alone except for a co
nvert named Antony.  His earlier missions, had taken him to Japan, where he had limited success, and to India, where he managed to convert many of the Paravas. FTP, identify this missionary, one of the original Jesuits, patron saint of foreign missions.  

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Francis Xavier}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
6. Adam marries Cathy, but on their wedding night, she drugs him to go with his brother Charles.  Later after bearing twins she shoots Adam and leaves.  Depressed, Adam is unable to even name the boys until Sam Hamilton angers him. 
 FTP, this is the first half of the plot of what John Steinbeck work telling the story of twins Caleb and Aron, and other members of the Trask family.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 East of Eden}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
7. It was first prepared in solid form in 1899 by James Dewar, who had only the yea
r before produced it as a liquid.  At high temperatures it dissociates into free atoms and acts as a powerful reducing agent, reacting with oxides and chlorides of metals to leave the free metal.  For 10 points, what is this element, the most abundant in 
the universe?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 hydrogen}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 8.  He came to the US in the 1880's and worked as a streetcar conductor, dairyman, and a deep sea fisherman, experiences which helped form his work }{\ul\cgrid0 Cultural Life of Modern America}{\cgrid0 
.  He continued his criticism of modern life in such works as }{\ul\cgrid0 Mysteries}{\cgrid0  and his }{\ul\cgrid0 August}{\cgrid0  trilogy.  FTP, identify this Nobel Laureate Norwegian, known for his }{\ul\cgrid0 Hunger}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 
The Growth of the Soil}{\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Knut }{\ul\cgrid0 Hamsun}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 9. In
 its center is the Adamawa Massif and it is shaped like an elongated triangle.  It lies on the Bight of Bonnay and is bordered on the south by Congo, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea.  To its east lies Chad and the Central African Republic.  For 10 points, id
entify this African nation with its capital at Yaounde.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Cameroon}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 10. High above the Urubamba river, 50 miles northwest of Cuzco, you will find about five square miles of terraces and stairways surrounding a central plaza, large numbers of stone h
ouses, most one-room, arranged around internal courts, and other examples of Inca civilization.   FTP, identify this ancient city of the Incas found in 1911 by Hiram Bingham.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Machu Picchu}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
11. His family's original surname was Williams, but after h
is great-great-grandfather's uncle gained favor in the court of Henry VIII, his family changed their name.  After financial losses in 1631, he sold his land in Huntingdon  where he had been elected to Parliament, two years earlier.  Later, he allowed Jews
 to return to England, and his reputation was improved\'cathrough his sympathetic portrayal in Thomas Carlyle's }{\ul\cgrid0 On Heroes}{\cgrid0 
.  FTP, identify this leader victorious against the Irish at Drogheda, and against King Charles I's men at Marston Moor.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Oliver }{\ul\cgrid0 Cromwell}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
12. The most common type of this device is the Mannheim, or straight line type, though other types include the circular and cylindrical type.  Collectors belong to the Oughtred Society.  Companies which manufactured these devices include Curta, Fowl
er, Otis King, Keuffel and Esser, and Accumath.  On them you can find the CF and DF, or Folded scales which begin and end at pi, while the A and B scales are the squares of the C and D scales.  FTP,identify this manual computing device largely replaced by
 the pocket calculator. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Slide Rule}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
13. He served as the private secretary for Justice Louis Brandeis from 1919 to 1921 and represented the US in the negotiations to found NATO.  A winner of the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1970, his works include }{\ul\cgrid0 Present at the Creation}{
\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Power and Diplomacy}{\cgrid0 .  FTP, identify this diplomat and statesman accused by McCarthy of protecting Communists during his term as Secretary of State under Truman.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Dean }{\ul\cgrid0 Acheson}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
14. Her letters to her parents from Wellesley College formed the basis for her parent's comedy }{\ul\cgrid0 Take Her, She's Mine}{\cgrid0 .  A columnist for }{\ul\cgrid0 New York Magazine}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Esquire}{\cgrid0 
, her articles were collected in the books }{\ul\cgrid0 Scribble, Scribble}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Crazy Salad}{\cgrid0 .  She chronicled her marriage and divorce in the movie }{\ul\cgrid0 Heartburn}{\cgrid0 
, which she wrote.  FTP identify this woman whose other film credits include the screenplays for }{\ul\cgrid0 Silkwood}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 When Harry Met Sally}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Sleepless in Seattle}{\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Nora }{\ul\cgrid0 Ephron}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
15. Educated at Lieden, this 
Dutchman theorized that oscillations of charged particles within atoms were the source of light, and with Pieter Zeeman, received the 1902 Nobel Prize in Physics.  FTP, identify this physicist whose transformations relate relativistic velocities and masse
s.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Hendrik Anton }{\ul\cgrid0 Lorentz}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
16. He may have been the personification of the Storm flood which devastated the coasts of the North Sea.   He lived with his mother, called either Merewil or Grundwyrgen, in a bottomless lake, and was described as a descen
dant of Cain.  FTP, identify this monster of Anglo-Saxon literature slain by Beowulf.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Grendel}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
17. The Earl Squander wants his son to marry the daughter of the alderman.  In the "The Marriage Contract," we see the Earl, with his son the Viscount.  
By painting three, the Viscount has contracted syphillis, possibly from his mistress.  By painting four the Earl is dead, and in painting five the Viscount is killed by his wife's lover. The final painting is "The Suicide of the Countess."  FTP, identify 
this series of satirical paintings created by William Hogarth.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Marriage A La Mode}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
18. She is said to have borne two sons by Agamemnon, Teladamus and Pelops, who along with her and her master were murdered upon their arrival at Mycenae by Clytemnest
ra and Aegisthus.  She was raped at the shrine of Athena by the Locrian Ajax and for this insult, Athena sank many of the returning Greek ships after the fall of Troy.  FTP identify this daughter of Priam and Hecuba who suffered the misfortune of having h
er warnings of doom ignored by her family.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Cassandra}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 19. As a young boy, he nearly fell into a bear pit, saved only by his father's quick action.  Later as a student in Berlin, he met Hegel and Bakunin, and developed a European outlook which infl
uenced his work.  An encounter with two peasants in 1847 led him to write }{\ul\cgrid0 Sportsman's Sketches}{\cgrid0 
.  Some of these sketches ultimately influenced Alexander II to abolish serfdom.  FTP, identify this Russian writer, known for such works as }{\ul\cgrid0 A Month in the County}{\cgrid0 , and }{\ul\cgrid0 Fathers and Sons}{\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Ivan Sergeyevich }{\ul\cgrid0 Turgenev}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
20. Trained as a steel engineer, he became a political commisar and achieved the rank of major general before being sent to the Kazakh to oversee the cultivation of the steppe.  His May 1963 appoin
tment as national party secretary was followed by Khrushchev's ousting  which led to a triumvirate of power between Kosygin, Podgorny and himself.  FTP identify this Soviet leader whose doctrine to prevent the decline of communism in Communist countries l
ed to the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Leonid Ilyich }{\ul\cgrid0 Brezhnev}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
21. Bowdoin College was a good place for him.  He wrote the novel Fanshawe, based on his experiences there, and while there, he met Franklin Pierce, for whom he later wrote his campaign biography.  In contrast, Brook Farm was not nearly as good a place, b
ut still he managed to turn the experience into his "The Blithedale Romance."  FTP, identify this author, who turned his time as a surveyor for a Boston Custom House into the preface for "The Scarlet Letter."
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Nathaniel }{\ul\cgrid0 Hawthorne}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
22. In 1982, a stud
y of wild guinea pigs found that 36 of 138 had been exposed to this disease.  The first recorded cases were found in 1976 in the Maridi region of the Sudan.  It begins with a frontal headache, fever and weakness, and lethargy.  Later gastrointestinal symp
toms occur, culminating in hemorrhaging and blood loss.  FTP, identify this dangerous disease whose last major outbreak was in late 1995 in Gabon.  
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Ebola}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
22. One of only two African officers in his country's military when it became independent in 
1962, he was promoted to Major General and commander of armed forces in 1968.  After taking control in 1971, he expelled Asians, nationalized companies, and killed over 300,000 of his own people.  After being overthrown in 1979 by Tanzanian forces, he fle
d to Saudi Arabia, and was replaced by Milton Obote.  FTP, identify this one time dictator of Uganda.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Idi Amin}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
23. The ancient Roman forerunner of this game, Tabula, was played with all pieces travelling in the same direction.  A medieval version w
as called Fayles [FAILS].  In the Dutch version, all pieces begin off the board.  The Greek version is called Plakato, the Turkish Moultezim.  FTP, identify this board game derived from the Egyptian game Senet, distinctive for its use of the Doubling Cube
.  
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Backgammon}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
24. Pencil and paper is not necessary.  Suppose a company spends $3 million on
\par capital equipment, and manufactures widgets costing $50 in labor and materials, and sells the widgets for $100.  After 60,000 widgets are produced, the co
mpany has produced enough widgets such that there is neither a net gain or a net loss.  FTP, what is the economic term for this situation?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: breakeven
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
27. She spoke six languages at the age of eleven, and was able to defend her }{\ul\cgrid0 Philosophical Propositions}{\cgrid0 .  In 1748, she published her }{\ul\cgrid0 Analytical Institutions}{\cgrid0 
 a 2000 page algebra text in her native Italian.  In 1762, she was asked to referee Lagrange's paper on calculus of variations, but she had not worked with mathematics in a decade.  FTP, identify th
is woman, best known for her connection to a curve known as "versiera" or the witch curve.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Maria Gaetana Agnesi
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
28. It cost $135 Million, and was completed in seven months.  Running 1523 miles from Dawson Creek to Fairbanks, i
t was constructed by US Army Engineers to protect against an invasion of the Northwest by Japan.  FTP, identify this public works projects which today remains the only year-round overland route to the North. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Alaska Highway, or Alcan Highway
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 29. T
hey were broken when James McParlan, an agent of the Pinkerton agency, was hired by Franklin Gowen, president of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company.  McParlan infiltrated this secret society and collected evidence of this group's harassmen
t and assaults of mineowners and their allies.  FTP, what was this Pennsylvania centered labor society who took their name from an Irish anti-landlord movement?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Molly Maguires
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
30. Astronauts go through a rip in time.  The Earth blows up, circa 3950
.  Cornelius and Zira come back to present day.  They are hunted down, but their child escapes.  Every cat and dog dies. The child later leads the revolution.  Nuclear war ensues, but mankind does not deevolve.  There, I've saved you the ten hours it woul
d take you to watch, FTP, what 1970's series of movies starring Roddy McDowall and Charlton Heston, composed of the original and the "Beneath," "Return to," "Conquest of," and "Battle for" sequels. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: The Planet of the Apes
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
31. They can be found in S
iberia, Brazil and the Cairngorm Mountains of Scotland.  In 1750, it was discovered that yellow ones treated with heat turn pink.  Though known since antiquity, it is possible that the stone referred to in ancient times by this name may have actually been
 chrysolite.  FTP identify this gemstone, rated as an 8 on the Mohs scale, the birthstone for November.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Topaz
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page }{
\b\cgrid0 ACF Nationals 1996
\par Questions by Cornell B
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1. Answer these questions about everyone's favorite mythological engineer, Daedelaus for 10 points each.
\par 1. Though more often associated with Crete, Daedelaus was a native of this city, which he left after killing his nephew.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Athens}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 2. When he reac
hed Crete, he helped this wife of Minos to fulfill her love for a bull, allowing her to...well, how do we put this...have a cow, man.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Pasiphae}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Who was Deadalus' nephew that he killed out jealousy, forcing him to flee Athens?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Talos}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 2. For the stated number of points, identify these dignitaries present at the Congress of Vienna.
\par 1. 5 pts: Austrian Minister of State
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Prince Klemens von }{\ul\cgrid0 Metternich}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. 10 pts: Emperor of Russia
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Alexander I}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. 5 pts: Chief French Diplomat representing Louis XVIII.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Charles Maurice de }{\ul\cgrid0 Talleyrand}{\cgrid0 -Perigord
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
4. 10 pts: Principal Prussian Delegate.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Prince Karl August von }{\ul\cgrid0 Hardenberg }{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Identify these volcanoes, extinct and otherwise, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 5: The highest peak in the Western Hemisphere is this extinct volcano in Argentina.\tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Aconcauga}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10: The 1698 eruption of this Ecuadorian volcano destroyed the city of Tacunga.  \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Cotopaxi}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 5: This extinct volcano in the Russian Caucausus is the highest peak in Europe.  \tab \tab Answer: Mount }{\ul\cgrid0 Elbrus}{\cgrid0 
\par 4. 10: This volcano is the only active volcano in Antarctica.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Mount }{\ul\cgrid0 Erebus}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 4. For ten points each, identify these non-dinosaur fossils.
\par 1. Believed to be squidlike, this group of cephalopods which appeared during the Devonian period left behind tightly coiled, spiral shells.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Ammonite}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. This class of marine arthropods lived during the Paleozoic era.  Their exoskeletons provide evidence of their quick development and wide range, and serve as markers for the early Paleozoic.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Trilobite}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. These large herbivorous mammals differ from elephants in that they possessed complete tuberculate teeth.  Their existinction occurred approximately 8000 years ago.\tab \tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Mastodon}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 5. Identify these WWI battles, 10 pts. each.
\par 1. This naval battle between British ships commanded by Jellicoe, and Germans commanded by Scheer, ended in German retreat, leaving the North Sea under Allied
\par control for the remainder of the war.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Battle of }{\ul\cgrid0 Jutland}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. Initially planned to be a naval engagement, this disastrous campaign found Turkish troops led by Mustafa Kemal continually routing a joint British, French and New Zealander force attempting to take control of Istanbul in 1915.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Gallipoli}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. In the summer of 1916, the British and French gained an insignificant 125 square miles at the cost of 600,000 dead or wounded, with Germany losing 500,000.  Of this battle Siegfried Sassoon wrote, "I am staring at a sunlit picture of hell."
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Somme}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
6. And now we present "Cheech and Chong's Literature."  Identify the authors of these drug themed works, for 10 pts. each.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-4896\li4896\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
1. Electric Kool Aid Acid Test\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Tom }{\ul\cgrid0 Wolfe}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 2. Junkie\tab 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: William }{\ul\cgrid0 Burroughs}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. Diary of a Drug Fiend \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Aliester }{\ul\cgrid0 Crowley}{\cgrid0 
\par \page 7. Pencil and Paper ready.  Suppose you have a test tube filled which has the following cations in a water solution.  Ag+(Silver I) Hg++(Mercury II) Cu+ (Copper I), Sodium, Zinc, and Barium. 
\par 1. If we were to treat the solution with hydrochloric acid, two of the ions listed would precipitate out of the solution.  For five points each, which two?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Silver}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Mercury}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. Taking the remaining solution, we use the compound thioacetamide, and heat the solution, causing thioacetamide to break down into hydrogen sulfide. For five points each, which two cation would as a result precipitate out of the solution?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Copper}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Zinc}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. The remaining solution is then subjected to a flame test.  For a final ten points, if Barium is present, what color should the flame be?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Green}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
8. 30-20-10.  Identify the Poet
\par 1.  Born in 1644, he took his pen name from the hut where he worked.  He wrote "The Cottage of the Plantain Tree."
\par 2.  His collections of poetry include "The Records of a Travel-Worn Satchel" and "The Narrow Road to the Deep North."
\par 3.  A member of the samurai class, this poet of the Tokugawa period, developed the haiku.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 An
swer: Matsuo }{\ul\cgrid0 Basho}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
9. Identify these landmarks in adult education for ten points each.
\par 1. A summer training program for Sunday school teachers in this Western New York community began in 1874.  The program eventually evolved into a traveling lecture series and summer school program.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Chatauqua}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. This 1862 act established land grant colleges for the training of agriculture and mechanical arts.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Morrill}{\cgrid0  Act
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. This Massachusetts association was established in 1826 by Josiah Holbrook, was created as part of an effort to establish a public school system.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Lyceum}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
10. 30-20-10.  Identify the artist.
\par 30.  Twice he attempted to join the navy, failing the exam in 1848, and 1850. Between the two attempts he went on the ship Le Havre et Guadeloupe to Rio.
\par 20.  The model for his }{\ul\cgrid0 The Boy with Cherries}{\cgrid0  hanged himself on a nail in his studio.  Obsessed with death, he moved to Rue de Villiers.
\par 10.  At Rue de Villiers, he painted }{\ul\cgrid0 The Absinthe Drinker}{\cgrid0 .  Later he also painted }{\ul\cgrid0 Olympia}{\cgrid0 , which was refused by the Salon show.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Edouard }{\ul\cgrid0 Manet}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
11. From Manet, to Mamet.  Identify these plays by David Mamet.  Ten points each.
\par 1.  Danny and Deborah meet, fall in and out of love and separate, while best friends Bernard and Joan affect the relationship.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Sexual Perversity In Chicago}{\cgrid0 
\par 2.  Ruthless real-estate salesmen compete to sell lots in Florida development sites.\tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Glengarry Glen Ross}{\cgrid0 
\par 3.  Three thieves plan the theft of a coin collection, but never stop arguing
\par long enough to put a plan together.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 American Buffalo}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 12. Identify the following associated with Joseph McCarthy's search for Communists, for ten points each.
\par 1. McCarthy began his campaign when he showed off his "list" of 205 State Department Communists at the Ohio County Women's Republican Club in this city.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Wheeling,}{\cgrid0  West Virginia
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. This Maryland Senator headed an investigative committee that pronounced McCarthy's claims ludicrous.  McCarthy promptly turned on the Senator, who lost in reelection.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Millard }{\ul\cgrid0 Tydings}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. As attorney for the Army, this man managed to bring down McCarthy with the simple phrase..."At long last sir, have you no sense of shame?"
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Joseph }{\ul\cgrid0 Welsh}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
13. Some parts of constellations are known by their own name.  Given the name of part of a constellation, give the constellation each is part of.  Ten Points each. 
\par 1. Jacob's Staff or the Golden Yardarm               \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Orion}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. Coal Sack\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Crux Australis or 
\par 3. Praesepe\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Cancer}{\cgrid0  or the Crab\page 14. Identify these Hitchcock films for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5: Jeff, a photographer, breaks his leg, and comes to believe his neighbor, played by Raymond Burr, has killed his wife.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Rear Window}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  10:  Bruno Antony wants to make a deal with tennis player Guy Haines. I'll kill your wife, if you kill my father.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Strangers on a Train}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  15:  In this 1972 film, RAF pilot Richard Blaney is suspected of a series of killings, but it's his best friend who's strangling women with a necktie.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Frenzy}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
15. Identify these phases of cell division for 10 points each.
\par 1. The phase in which nuclear membranes are broken down by proteolyte enzymes.  \tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 prophase}{\cgrid0 
\par 2.  The phase in which cytokinesis occurs.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 telophase}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  The phase in which the cell chromosomes begin alignment along the equator of the spindle.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 metaphase}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
16. Given a musical composition, tell me which of Russia's Mighty Five composed  them.  Five points each.
\par 1. A Prisoner in the Caucausus          \tab \tab Answer: Cesar }{\ul\cgrid0 Cui\tab \tab }{\cgrid0 
\par 2. Prince Igor\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Alexander }{\ul\cgrid0 Borodin}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. Song of the Golden Fish\tab \tab \tab Answer: Mili }{\ul\cgrid0 Balakirev}{\cgrid0 
\par 4. St. John's Night on the Bare Mountain         Answer: Modest }{\ul\cgrid0 Mussorgsky}{\cgrid0 
\par 5. On the Steppes of Central Asia                Answer: Alexander }{\ul\cgrid0 Borodin}{\cgrid0 
\par 6. Russian Easter Festival \tab \tab \tab Answer: Nikolai }{\ul\cgrid0 Rimsky-Korsakov }{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 17. Given a list of writers tell me the collective group to which they belonged.  Ten poins each.
\par 1. Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Lodge, John Lyley.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 University Wits}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. Sir John Suckling, Richard Lovelace, and Robert Herrick
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Cavalier}{\cgrid0  Poets or }{\ul\cgrid0 Sons of Ben}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. John Arbuthnot, Alexander Poepe, Johnathon Swift
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Scriblerus}{\cgrid0  Club
\par 
\par 18. If you've left you wallet in El Segundo, or anywhere else in Mexico, you might appreciate this question.  Along the US-Mexican border, you will find pairs of towns often of fairly large size.  Given a US city, name the Mexican border town directly acr
oss the border.
\par 1. 5: San Diego, CA\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Tijauna}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10: El Paso, TX\tab \tab \tab Answer: Ciudad }{\ul\cgrid0 Juarez}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 15: Brownsville, TX \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Matamoros}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 19. Having just completed my homework for heat transfer, I notice that I've been spending way too much time convert
ing units to the MKS system.  Now you pay the price.  Given a unit of measurement in a system of measurement, give me the equivalent measure in the MKS system.  For example if I said, Calorie, you'd answer Joule.  5 pts each.
\par 1.  Horsepower\tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Watt}{\cgrid0 
\par 2.  Gauss\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Tesla}{\cgrid0 
\par 3.  Bar\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Pascal}{\cgrid0 
\par 4.  Dyne\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Newton}{\cgrid0 
\par 5.  Parsec\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Meter}{\cgrid0 
\par 6.  Grain\tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Kilogram}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 20.  Answer these questions about the 1876 Presidential election.
\par 1. For 5 points each, name the 4 states whose disputed electoral votes gave Hayes the victory.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Florida}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 Louisiana}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 South Carolina}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 Oregon}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. The Electoral Count Act of 1887 was passed to prevent future disputes involving a state sending two sets of electoral votes to Congress.  Under this Act, who decides which set of votes is official?
\par \tab Answer:  The state's }{\ul\cgrid0 Governor}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 21. 30-20-10.  Name the year.
\par 1. William James publishes }{\ul\cgrid0 Principles of Psychology}{\cgrid0 .  Yosemite and Sequoia National Parks are established.
\par 2. After a dispute over Russo-German policy, Wilhelm II dismisses Bismarck.  The McKinley Tariff is passed.
\par 3. The Sherman Anti-Trust Act is passed.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 1890}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
21. 30-20-10.   Identify the playwright.
\par 30. The son of peasants, he worked as a stagehand, and then in a flour mill where he wrote the first of his 130 plays.
\par 20. His plays form the basis for both Moliere's }{\ul\cgrid0 The Miser}{\cgrid0 , and Shakespeare's }{\ul\cgrid0 Comedy of Errors}{\cgrid0 .
\par 10. He himself used Menander's Greek plays, and Romanized them, in such works as 
\par Amphitruo, Rudens, and Captivi.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Titus Maccius }{\ul\cgrid0 Plautus}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
22. Identify these logical terms for ten points each.
\par 1. Two propositions of which, both cannot be true, but both can be false.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Contraries}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 2. Two propositi
ons, where one must be true, and the other must be false.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Contradictories}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Two propositions of which, both cannot be false, but both can be true.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 Subcontraries}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
23. For five points each, identify any six of the eight "rights" of the Eightfold Path.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Right View, Right Resolve, Right Speech, Right Action, Right LIvelihood, Right Effort, Right Mindfulness, Right Concentration.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Back in ancient Greek days, everyone was in league with someone.  Identify these Greek leagues, for fifteen points each.
\par 1.  Originally a religious group of twelve tribes sworn to protect temples at Thermopylae and Delphi, in the 3}{\up6\cgrid0 r}{\cgrid0 d century BC this league fought two holy wars which Philip of Macedon used to influence Greek affairs.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Amphictyonic League
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  This league controlled all of Central Greece after opposing the Achaean League.  Following clashes with Phillip V of Macedonia, they allied with
\par Rome to defeat Macedonia.  After they didn't recover lost land, they went after Rome with the help of Syria.  With Syria's Antiochus III defeated in 189, they broke up soon after.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Aetolian League
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
For five points each, name the four schools that competed in this years NCAA Women's Final Four. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Connecticut, Stanford, Georgia, Tennesee.
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
For a final ten points.  Where was this year's Final Four held?
\par Answer: Charlotte, NC
\par 
\par Given the subject of a Schoolhouse Rock Song, give the title of the song, five points each.
\par 1.  The process of making a law.     Answer: I'm Just A Bill
\par 2.  Westward Expansion               Answer: Elbow Room
\par 3.  Inventions                       Answer: Mother Necessity
\par 4.  Pronouns                         Answer: Rufus Xavier Sasparilla
\par 5.  Women's Rights                   Answer: Sufferin' Till Suffrage
\par 6.  The Solar System                 Answer: Interplanet Janet
\par 
\par Identify the following types of angles for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points, any angle greater than 90 degrees and less than 180 degrees.  \tab Answer: Obtuse
\par 2.  For 10 points, any angle measuring exactly 180 degrees.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Straight
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  For 15 points, any angle greater than 180 degrees, but less than 360 degrees.  \tab Answer: Reflex
\par 
\par 19. 30-20-10 Name the communications pioneer.
\par 1. During WWII he served as Chief of communications under Eisenhower, where he reached the rank of major general.
\par 2. While working for the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company, he developed the idea of a consumer radio recieving set.  When the company was bought out by RCA in 1919, he became the commercial manager.
\par 3.  While working for RCA in 1926, he organized the National Broadcasting Company, and later this native of Belarus became president of Rca. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: David Sarnoff
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
11. John Dos Passos' }{\ul\cgrid0 USA Trilogy}{\cgrid0  is composed of the books }{\ul\cgrid0 1919}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 The Big Money}{\cgrid0 , and }{\ul\cgrid0 The 42}{\ul\up6\cgrid0 n}{\ul\cgrid0 d Parallel}{\cgrid0 
.  Following these books, Dos Passos wrote a second trilogy known as the District of Columbia Trilogy.  FTP each, identify the three works which make up that trilogy.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3150\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }
{\ul\cgrid0 adventures Of A Young Man}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 number One}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 the Grand Design}{\cgrid0 
\par }}