{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min5}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}{\printim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords4103}{\nofchars23388}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws28722}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\cgrid0 1996 ACF Nationals
\par Questions by Emory A
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1. Before settling on writing--as a young woman in her twenties--she performed as a singer and movie extra, taught, and worked as a journalist.  She won solid critical notice for her first slim volume of short stories, }{\ul\cgrid0 Flowering Judas}{
\cgrid0 , in 1930, but her writing brought her no wide notice (or sustained income) until her first novel was published in 1962.  FTP identify this American author, born in Indian Creek, Texas,  most famous for her works }{\ul\cgrid0 The Days Before}{
\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Ship of Fools}{\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Katherine Anne }{\ul\cgrid0 Porter}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. He subdued North Wales and expanded Roman rule north into Scotland, defeating the Caledonians at Mons Graupius  in 83.  He Romanized Britain in a shrewd and gradual fashion, fostering urbanizat
ion and partial self-rule in the south.  FTP name this Roman general who served ably as a conqueror and governor of Britain, whose son-in-law Tacitus left an account of his enlightened rule.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Gnaeus Julius }{\ul\cgrid0 Agricola}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. The capture of neutrons by atm
ospheric nitrogen leads to the formation of a hydrogen and an isotope of this element.  This element is then eventually integrated into all living things on Earth.  FTP, identify this element, the most common in living organisms.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 carbon}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 4. This Fr
ench realist's favorite model was himself.  His father provided a studio for him on his return to Paris in 1849.  In 1855, he planned his own exhibition independent of the state-funded salons.  FTP, identify this artist of }{\ul\cgrid0 The Wave}{\cgrid0 
, }{\ul\cgrid0 The Studio}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 After Dinner at Ornans}{\cgrid0 , and }{\ul\cgrid0 Stone Breakers}{\cgrid0 .  
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Gustav }
{\ul\cgrid0 Courbet}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
5. This novel has no dialogue.  A boy encounters ignorant and narrow-minded peasants who believe him to be a gypsy or a Jew and subject him to horrible cruelty.  This novel, an exploration of the p
rimitive, elemental forces in man, follows a small boy's odyssey through Eastern Europe during World War II.  FTP, identify this 1965 novel by Jerzy Kosinski.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: The }{
\ul\cgrid0 Painted Bird}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
6.  He is sometimes shown holding the heart and tongue of the sun god in his hand to symbolize his control of the sun gods intelligence.  In Egyptian myth, he is the inventor of arts, sciences, and hieroglyphics and is the god of wisdom.  FTP, identify th
is ibis-headed god whom the Greeks and Romans identified with Hermes and Mercury respectively.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Thoth}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
7. When the British won control of South Carolina in 1780, he, Francis Marion, and other partisan fighters kept the rebel cause alive south of Virg
inia until the victory at Yorktown a year later. After the war he represented South Carolina as a U.S. congressman (1789-93, 1797-1801) and senator (1801-09).  Ftp identify this guerilla leader during the American Revolution, nicknamed "the gamecock of th
e Revolution," for whom a fort in Charleston, SC is named.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Thomas }
{\ul\cgrid0 Sumter}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 8. In th
is branch of psychology, the person is seen as moving away from situations that make him or her feel inferior and toward goals of success and superiority.  How one sees oneself and the world, one's goals, and one's manner of striving for these goals const
itute one's life-style. It is manifested in all one does, including one's dreams and early recollections.   FTP, identify this branch of psychology founded by Alfred Adler.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 individual}{\cgrid0  psychology
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
9. This man studied math and engineering in Turin and
 worked as an engineer for many years.  Taking interest in social problems and economics, his Cours d'economique politique represented one of the first times math had been directly applied to economics.  FTP, name this Italian economist famous for his opt
imal criterion.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Vilfredo }{\ul\cgrid0 Pareto}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
10. With Thomas Cromwell, he brought about an English translation of the Bible and also made it possible to have at least one Bible in every church in England. Archbishop of Canterbury and a lecturer in divinity at J
esuit College, he became known when he suggested that Henry VIII make further attempts at divorcing Katherine of Aragon.  FTP, name this religious pawn, famous for collecting }{\ul\cgrid0 The Book of Common Prayer}{\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Thomas }
{\ul\cgrid0 Cranmer}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
11.  This gas is toxic and is 
light-blue.  Its pungent odor is noticeable around sources of significant electrical discharges such as a subway train.  Mainly used to purify drinking water, and deodorize air and sewage gases, it can be photochemically produced by subjecting oxygen to a
n electrical discharge.  FTP, identify this gas.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 ozone}{\cgrid0  or O}{\dn6\cgrid0 3}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
12.  Nemorino, a peasant, loves Adina, a wealthy young woman who owns several estates.  After she rejects him, he falls for the scheme of the quack Dr. Dulcamara, giving him his last gold piece for a love potion which only makes him tipsy.  When Adina pro
m
ises to marry Sergeant Belcore, the desperate, penniless Nemorino enlists in the army in order to get cash to buy more of the potion, and his potion-induced indifference eventually forces Adina to confess her love for him.  FTP, identify this 1832 opera b
y Gaetano Donizetti.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 L'Elisir d'Amore}{\cgrid0   or The }{\ul\cgrid0 Elixir of Love}{\cgrid0   (do not accept The Love Potion or similar equivalents, since love potion is in the question)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
13.  The story of this Biblical character was probably drawn from popular oral folk tales and
 may be a myth connected with the cult of sun worship.  As a Nazarite, his locks were symbols of his vows to God, and because of this covenant he was strong.  FTP, name this Biblical character later tricked by Delilah into cutting his hair, thus rendering
 him weak.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Samson}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
14.  His theme of expatriate alienation is developed in such novels as }{\ul\cgrid0 The Mimic Men}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 In a Free State}{\cgrid0 ; and }{\ul\cgrid0 Guerillas}{\cgrid0 
 is the grim tale of a failed black-power movement on a West Indian Island.  His essays are collected in such volumes as }{\ul\cgrid0 India:  A Wounded Civilization}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 The Return of Eva Peron}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 
Among the Believers: An Islamic Journey}{\cgrid0 , and }{\ul\cgrid0 India:  A Million Mutinies Now}{\cgrid0 .  FTP name this essayist and novelist, ranked among the greatest living writers of English, most famous for }{\ul\cgrid0 A House for Mr. Biswas}{
\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 A Bend in the River}{\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0  \tab 
\tab Answer: Vidiadhar Surajprasad }{\ul\cgrid0 Naipaul}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
15. It is a trading center for the surrounding Mesaoria Plain, where wheat, olives, almonds, and fruits are grown. Light industries manufacture machine tools, textiles, to
bacco products, pottery, and leather goods.  Landmarks include the Church of Saint Sophia--now a mosque--which was begun in the 13th century, and the 15th-century Venetian walls. FTP name this city, known as Ledra in ancient times, the capital of Cyprus.

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Nicosia}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
16. Heat a sample of DNA to 95 degrees Celsius.  Add Taq (pronounced "tack") polymerase to the solution;
 the solution is allowed to cool to 60 degrees Celsius.  The process of heating and cooling of the DNA allows amplification of the original samples of the DNA.  FTP, identify this process.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 PCR}{\cgrid0  or }{\ul\cgrid0 polymerase chain reaction}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
17. It influenced Rousseaus novel }{\ul\cgrid0 Julie, ou La Nouvelle Heloise}{\cgrid0 
 (zhoo-LEE, ooh lah noo-VELL ay-loh-EEZ).  The title character's family has ordered her to marry the foppish Mr. Solmes.  Locked in her room, she secretly corresponds with a suitor of whom her family does not approve. 
 She flees with the suitor, Robert Lovelace, and he rapes her after he is unsuccessful in his attempts to seduce her.  FTP, identify this one-hundred-million-word-long novel, an epistolary novel by Samuel Richardson.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Clarissa}{\cgrid0  Harlowe  Clarissa, or, The History of a Young Lady
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
18. This man was vice-president of the AFL-CIO in 1955 and later was director of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in 1963.  Earlier in his life, he had published The Messenger, an African-American magazine and made
 an unsuccessful bid for the office of Secretary of State in New York.  FTP, name this man, founder of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters and organizer of the first attempt at an African-American march on Washington DC.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Asa Phillip }{\ul\cgrid0 Randolph}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 1
9. This Scottish physicist worked at the British government's Meteorological Office and Department of Scientific and Industrial Research. In 1919 he patented his first device, designed for use in atmospheric studies. Successive instruments improved the in
strument's accuracy and sensitivity, and his 1935 patent was central to the radar system that proved effective against German air raids.  FTP, identify this physicist.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Sir Robert Alexander }{\ul\cgrid0 Wattson-Watt}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
20. This stands opposed to doctrines that hold
 that truth can be reached through deductive reasoning from a priori grounds and insists on the need for inductive investigations and constant empirical verification of hypotheses.  In this philosophy, thought is considered as simply an instrument for sup
porting the life aims of a human and has no metaphysical significance.  FTP, name this school of philosophy developed by C.S. Peirce and William James.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Pragmatism}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
21. One early commentator refers to her as a precocious child, the poet, the woman, t
he mystic.  Another calls her woman, artist, humanist.  To another she is a prophetess poet, a radical humanist.  These comments suggest her complexity as a person and writer.  FTP identify this early twentieth century poet, best known for her works Justi
ce Denied in Massachusetts, A Few Figs From Thistles, and Renascence.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Edna St. Vincent }{\ul\cgrid0 Millay}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
22. The names the same.  One was a countess who was a friend of the duc de la Rochefoucauld  (dook duh lah roash-foo-KO) and the author of the first great
 French novel, the 1678 work La Princesse de Cleves (lah pran-SESS duh CLEV).  The other, a marquis (mar-KEE), created the modern French flag and took part in the July Revolution as a leader of the moderates.  However, he is better known for joining Georg
e Washingtons army and distinguishing himself in the Yorktown campaign.  FTP, identify the shared name.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Lafayette}{\cgrid0   (Marie Madeleine Pioche de la Vergne, comtesse de Lafayette,  and  Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Motier, marquis de Lafayette)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
23. This Polish-American biochemist, was a pioneer in the study of vitamins and coined the term vitamine, later chang
ed to vitamin. In 1911 he isolated a pure chemical from yeast and rice polishings that became known as vitamin B-1, or thiamine.  He also studied other food factors and contributed to an understanding of vitamin deficiency.  FTP, identify this biochemist.

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Kasmir }
{\ul\cgrid0 Funk}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
24. This 810 lb. spacecraft was put into an orbit at a right angle to the solar system's ecliptic plane.  Launched from the shuttle Discovery in 1990, it flew past Jupiter at 61,249 miles per hour using the planet's gravity to send it 
towards the sun.  FTP, name this international project to study the poles of the Sun and interstellar space.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Ulysses}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
25. This program combined live action, special effects, celebrity visits, and the occasional vintage cartoon.  Assisting the star 
were Shawn Weiss as Elvis, Diane Yang as Cher, Natasha Lyonne as Opal, S. Epatha Merkerson as Reba, Larry Fishburne as Cowboy Curtis, and Lynne Stewart as Miss Yvonne.  FTP identify this surreal Saturday-morning kids show which quickly acheived cult statu
s, created by its star, Paul Reubens.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Pee-Wees Playhouse}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
For some reason, atoms on freshly exposed metal surfaces, such as those produced by abrading or cracking, change to positions of lower energy and emit the difference in the form of electrons,
 even though several electron volts of energy are ordinarily required to make this happen. This phenomenon was first discovered in 1940 by Johannes Kramer,who noted the erratic behavior of newly fabricated Geiger tubes. FTP identify these electrons, thoug
h still not well understood, are a useful way to detect metal wear and cracking.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 exoelectrons}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
According to legend, the family was descended from a plowman after whom it was named, who was chosen by Libuse, a royal princess, as her husband.  The fir
st historical ruler of this dynasty was Prince Borivoj I.  His grandson, Saint Wenceslas was assassinated in 929 by his brother, who reigned as Prince Boleslav I.  At the end of the 12th century the Holy Roman emperor raised Ottokar I to the hereditary ra
nk of king of Bohemia.  Wenceslas I, Ottokar II, and Wenceslas II succeeded in turn to that title. FTP identify this Czech dynasty which ruled Bohemia from the 9th century until 1306.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Premysl}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
It rises in the central Pyrenees in Spain very near the 
French border.  It flows generally northeast to Toulouse, then turns northwest, joins the Dordogne (dor-DUN-yuh) river, and forms the Gironde estuary.  FTP, identify this river of southwestern France on which the port of Bordeaux is located.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Garonne  }{\cgrid0  (gah-RUN)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Born in Charles Town, West Virginia in 1812, this son of a free black family studied in Pittsburgh, later studying medicine at Harvard.  After the Civil War, he would serve in the Freedman's Bureau and was almost elected lieutenant gov
ernor of South Carolina.  His ideas on race appeared in Principles of Ethnology.  FTP, name this African-American who called the National Emigration Convention in 1854 in hope for a mass-exodus to the Niger River Valley.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Martin }
{\ul\cgrid0 Delany}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 In the backg
round, a man has passed through a brightly lit doorway and is going up a set of stairs.  The mirror on the far wall shows the reflections of Mariana and Philip.  In the foreground, the artist depicts himself wearing the red cross of the Order of Santiago 
and painting a large canvas.  Also in the foreground are dwarfs, a dog, attendants, and the Infanta Margarita.  FTP, identify this 1656 painting by Diego Velazquez.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Las }{
\ul\cgrid0 Meninas}{\cgrid0    OR  The }{\ul\cgrid0 Maids in Waiting}{\cgrid0   OR  The }{\ul\cgrid0 Maids of Honor}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Susan, Rhoda, Jinnie
, Neville, Bernard, and Louis alternate speaking interior monologues.  As children, all six live in the same house by the seashore and take lessons from the same governess.  In a final monologue, Bernard looks back over his life and the lives of his frien
ds and feels himself flowing into their consciousnesses.  FTP, identify this original and unconventional novel by Virginia Woolf.
\par Answer: The Waves\page }{\b\cgrid0 1996 ACF Nationals
\par Questions by Emory A
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1.  5-10-15, identify the following method of obtaining the chemical compounds or elements.
\par 1.  5 pts.  This process is used to make ammonia through high temperature and the use of a  catalyst.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Haber}{\cgrid0  process
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  10pts.  This is the industrial method of producing nitric acid; the starting materials are molecular oxygen and ammonia.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Ostwald}{\cgrid0  process
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  15pts.  Sulfur is extracted by pumping superheated water underground.  \tab 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Frasch}{\cgrid0  process
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  This combination bonus combines literature and pop music.  For example, if I said, The nineteenth-century novel featuring the lawsuit Jarndyce vs. Jarndyce and the white rappers who hit the charts with Jump, you'd say Bleak House of Pain.  Each combin
ation is worth 10 points.
\par 1.  The Thomas Hardy novel in which Gabriel Oak loves Bathsheba Everdene, and the  mostly New Zealander band which recorded such albums as Temple of Low Men.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Far from the Madding Crowded House}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  The 1814 novel in which Fanny Price is adopted into the family of her uncle and aunt, Sir Thomas Bertram and Lady Bertram, and a recent album by the British band Blur.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Mansfield Parklife}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  The Newbery Award-winning novel from the Dark is Rising series by Susan Cooper, and the Police single from Synchronicity which mentions a king on a throne with his eyes torn out and a blind man looking for a shadow of doubt.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 The Grey King of Pain}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Identify these historic sites from US History, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. 10 pt: This was the name of a tree that stood in Hartford, Conn., until 1856.  According to tradition, colonists used the tree in 1687 to hide Connecticut's 1662 charter from Sir Edmund Andros, who was authorized by King James II to establish a Dominio
n of New England.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Charter Oak}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. 5 pt: It was built as a market and meeting hall and given in 1742 to the city of Boston.  It became famous as the "Cradle of Liberty" because it was the site of public protests against British policies before the American Revolution.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Faneuil Hall}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. 5 pt: A Confederate stockade for Union prisoners during the Civil War; The inmates suffered from overcrowding, starvation, and the cruelty of the superintendent; about 13,000 died.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Andersonville}{\cgrid0  Prison
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 4. 1
0 pt: It is the oldest masonery fort in the continental U.S. and was built in the 1740s' near St. Augustine, Florida.
\par \tab \tab Anser: Fort }{\ul\cgrid0 Matanzas}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 4.  For 10 points each, identify the female painter given a work, nationality, and years of birth and death.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-7056\li7056\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
1.  Cows Skull, Red, White, and Blue - American - 1887-1986\tab \tab \tab Answer: Georgia }{\ul\cgrid0 OKeeffe}{\cgrid0 
\par 2.  Self-Portrait - Swiss - 1741-1807\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Angelica }{\ul\cgrid0 Kauffmann}{\cgrid0 
\par 3.  Marie Antoinette - French - 1755-1842\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Elisabeth Louise }{\ul\cgrid0 Vigee-Lebrun}{\cgrid0    (vee-ZHAY luh-BRUNH)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
5.  Identify the following components of the cytoskeleton FTP each. 
\par 1.  This type of cytoskeleton is usually composed of actin and are 7-9 nanometer in diameter.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 microfilament}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  These are usually made of vimentin and are about 10 nanometers in diameter.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 intermediate filament}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  Composed usually of tubulin, this cytoskeleton component is usually 24 nanometers in diameter and are hollow.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 microtubles}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
6. Identify these novels, 10 pts. each.
\par 1.  This autobiography of Robert Graves, published in 1929, is considered to be a classic of the disillionment of the post-World War I generation.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Goodbye to All That}{\cgrid0 
\par 2.  A short sentimental novel about an English schoolmaster written by the English author James Hilton, it was an immediate best-seller when it first became available in the United States in 1934.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Goodbye, Mr. Chips}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Described as "a parable in 10 scenes," this Bertolt Brecht play is set in China between World War I and World War II, and follows the title character, Shen Te.
\par \tab \tab Answer: The }{\ul\cgrid0 Good Woman of Setzuan}{\cgrid0 \page 7. Identify the following men from Roman history.
\par 1. 5 pts. He rallied the Romans after their defeat at Cannae at the age of 19.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Cornelius }{\ul\cgrid0 Scipio Africanus}{\cgrid0  Major
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  10 pts.  He shared the consulship with Mark Antony and was Julius Caesar's master of horse.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Marcus Aemilius }{\ul\cgrid0 Lepidus}{\cgrid0   (READER'S NOTE:  He is the younger; his father also has the same name, but not as famous)  
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  15 pts. Elected consul in 87, he promised to retain Sulla's reforms when Sulla departed Rome for war with Pontus.  Instead he repealed Sulla's laws and was exiled from the city by the conservatives.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Cinna}{\cgrid0  (Lucius Cinna)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
8.  Identify these figures from Greek mythology FTP each.
\par 1.  With the aid of Zeus, he made the sun move backward, an omen which showed his brother to be a usurper.  He then invited his brother to a banquet, served him his sons in a stew, and banished him.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Atreus}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  This member of the house of Atreus was the product of an incestuous union between Thyestes and his daughter Pelopia.  He killed Atreus.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Aegisthus}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  While most sources name only Iphigenia and Electra as the daughters of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, some also name this one.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Chrysothemis}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
9. Idenitfy these Depression-era writers FTP each.
\par 1.  In his many polemical plays, he treated the evils of Nazism, the poverty of the Great Depression, and racism.  Among his plays are }{\ul\cgrid0 The Adding Machine}{\cgrid0 , }{\ul\cgrid0 We, the People}{\cgrid0 , and the 1929 Pulitzer Prize winner, }{
\ul\cgrid0 Street Scene}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Elmer }{
\ul\cgrid0 Rice}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  His Depression-era classic Waiting For Lefty is notable as the only one of his plays to employ such devices as direct address to the audience and placing actors in the auditorium.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Clifford }{\ul\cgrid0 Odets}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  Well known in the 1930s for her political journalism and her prize winning short stories, her works include Women on the Breadlines, Annunciation, and The Girl, published in 1978.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Meridel 
}{\ul\cgrid0 LeSueur}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 10. FTP ea
ch, identify these islands.
\par 1.  It is the largest of the Solomon Islands and was the subject of a U.S. invasion in 1942 and 1943.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Guadalcanal}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  Nagasaki is the chief port of this Japanese island.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Kyushu}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  The largest of the Channel Islands, it was the birthplace of Lillie Langtry.  Its capital is Saint Helier.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Jersey }{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
11. Identify the following physicists based upon the clues given FTP each.
\par 1.  This physicist is known for his invention of the bubble chamber.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Donald }
{\ul\cgrid0 Glaser}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  He divided atomic constituents into fermions and bosons, and named the neutrino.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Enrico }
{\ul\cgrid0 Fermi}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  His main achievement is the discovery of cosmic rays and he was awarded the 1936 Nobel prize for physics along with Carl Anderson.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Victor Francis }{\ul\cgrid0 Hess}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
12.  FTP each, Answer the following questions about the Nation of Islam.
\par 1. Virtually nothing is known about this man who founded the Black Muslims in Detroit in 1930.  By 1935, he had disappeared forever.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Wallace 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Fard}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. Who was the messenger of the Nation of Islam, a direct understudy of Wallace Fard?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Elijah Muhammed}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. You probably know that Malcolm X was born Malcolm Little.  But what more consciously Islamic name did he adopt shortly before his death?
\par \tab \tab Answer: El-Hajj Malik El-}{\ul\cgrid0 Shabazz}{\cgrid0 \page 13. Identify the following psychologist involved with the development of an intelligence test based upon the clues given FTP each.
\par 1. During World War I, this U.S. psychologist developed the Army Alpha Intelligence Test administered to over a million people.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Robert Mearns }{\ul\cgrid0 Yerkes}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. He and Theodore Simon produced a series of graded tasks typical of the intellectual development of children of different ages for the Ministry of Public Instruction.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Alfred }{\ul\cgrid0 Binet}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. In the course of standardizin
g a French version of an English intelligence test, he became fascinated instead with his discovery that children of the same age often gave the same incorrect answers to questions.  This suggested that there were consistent, qualitative differences in th
e nature of reasoning at different ages, not simply a quantitative increase in the amount of intelligence.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Jean }{\ul\cgrid0 Piaget}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 14.  FTP each, identify these styles of jazz.
\par 1.  Originating in the late 1920s, it was marked by a substitution of orchestrati
on for improvisation and a rhythm that falls between the beats.  The average big band had about 15 members, and among the most famous bands of this jazz style were those of Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Benny Goodman, and Artie Shaw.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 swing}{\cgrid0  (do not accept big band -- its mentioned in the question)
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  It was a reaction against the confining nature of swing, and was characterized by the flattened fifth, a more elaborate rhythmic structure, and a harmonic rather than melodic focus.  Among its luminaries
 were Charlie Parker, Dizzy Gillespie, and Thelonious Monk.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 bebop }{\cgrid0  or bo or rebop
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  Whereas the stride piano style evolved from ragtime, this piano style evolved from the blues.  The forerunner of rocknroll, it was one of the building blocks of s
wing and had a full four-beat feel.  It featured riffs, simple short melodic or rhythmic ideas that are often repeated.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 boogie-woogie
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
15.  FTP each, identify these British plays from the 1700s.
\par 1.  Sir Anthony Absolute wants his son Captain Absolute to marry Lydia Languish.  He does not know that Captain Absolute is pretending to be the penniless Ensign Beverly and is wooing Lydia under that name.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: The }{
\ul\cgrid0 Rivals}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  The bashful young Marlow wants Kate Hardcastle to marry him, but only feels at ease with barmaids and serving girls.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 She Stoops to Conquer}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  Characters in this play include Mr. Premium, Joseph Surface, Lady Teazle, and Lady Sneerwell.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: The }{
\ul\cgrid0 School for Scandal}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 16.  
FTP each, identify these pre-Socratic philosophers.
\par 1.This man anticipated the theory of evolution and believed that the universe was made up of the boundless and indefinite, known as the aperion.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Anaximander}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. He left his native city, Samos, in disgust at the tyranny of Polycrates and settled in Crotona, where he founded a movement with religious, political, and philosophical aims.  His followers believed in immortality and reincarnation.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Pythagoras}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. A disciple of Pythagoras and Parmen
ides, he refused to accept the crown offered him by the people of Agrigentum after he helped overthrow the ruling oligarchy.  He is principally known for asserting that all things are composed of four primal elements: earth, air, fire, and water.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Empedocles}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 17.  FTP each, identify these women important in France in the 1500s.
\par 1.  In 1560 she became regent for her son Charles IX.  She was the wife of Henry II and the mother of the kings Francis II and Henry III as well as Charles.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Catherine de Medici}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  The chateau of Chenonceaux originally belonged to this mistress of Henry II, but after Henry's death, his widow Catherine deMedici forced this woman to trade it with her for an inferior chateau.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Diane de Poitiers}{\cgrid0  OR duchesse de Valentinois
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  This sister of King Francis the First was the mother of Jeanne dAlbret  (ZHEN dahl-BRAY) and the author of the Heptameron.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Marguerite}{\cgrid0  (or Margaret) of }{\ul\cgrid0 Navarre}{\cgrid0  OR Marguerite Angouleme 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
18.  It's matching time; I will give you the amino acid and you match it to the clues given FTP each.  Your amino acids are alanine, cystine, glutamic acid, proline, glycine, and arginine.
\par 1.  This amino acid contains a reactive side sulfhydryl group which can form a disulfide bond.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 cysteine}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  This amino acid has the smallest R-side chain, a hydrogen.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 glycine}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  In people with sickle-cell anemia, this 6th amino acid has been switched to a valine.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 glutamic acid}{\cgrid0  or }{\ul\cgrid0 glutamate}{\cgrid0  (do not accepts glutamine)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 19. Identi
fy the Shakespeare plays from characters FTP each.
\par 1. Posthumus, Iachimo, Belarius
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Cymbeline}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  Camillo, Hermione (her-MY-uh-nee), Florizel (FLOR-ih-zel), Leontes 
\par \tab (lee-ON-tees), Polixenes (puh-LIX-uh-nees)
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: The }{
\ul\cgrid0 Winters Tale}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Helena, Gerard de Narbon, Parolles, the Count of Roussillon
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 All's Well That Ends Well}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 20. Name these famous astronomical firsts FTP each.
\par 1. This vehicle was used during the first manned orbital flight.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Vostok I}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 2. The first man to wa
lk in space, he walked in space for ten minutes.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Alexei }
{\ul\cgrid0 Leonev}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. She was the first African-American woman in space.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Mae }{
\ul\cgrid0 Jemison}{\cgrid0 , MD
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
21.  30-20-10 on European leaders.
\par 1. In December, 1989, this man was elected speaker of the Czechoslovakian parliament.
\par 2. During World War II, he was a member of the Communist underground movement and right after the war, became head of the Slovakian Communist party. 
\par 3. He led liberal opposition to Antonin Novotny bringing in the period of Czechoslavakian history known as the Prague Spring.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Alexander }{\ul\cgrid0 Dubcek}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
22.  Identify the following artist based upon works give FTP each.
\par 1. _Intervention of the Sabine Women and Coronation (1805-1808)
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Jacques-Louis }{\ul\cgrid0 David}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  Portrait of Paul Revere and Watson and the Shark
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: John Singleton }{\ul\cgrid0 Copley}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  Rake's Progress and Breakfast Scene from Marriage a la Mode
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: William 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Hogarth}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
23. 5-10-15, Answer the following questions about Buddhism.
\par 1. 5 pts. This was the Buddha's birth name.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Siddhartha }{\ul\cgrid0 Gautama}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  10 pts. This school of Buddhism believes all things are empty and its chief ideal is Bodhisattva, or the vow to postpone one's entrance into Nirvana until all other living beings are enlightened.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Mahayana}{\cgrid0  Buddhism
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3.  15 pts. In the 5th Century BC, this Buddhist scholar, living on Ceylon, produced some of the most important Theravada Buddhist writings.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Buddhagosha}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Idenitfy these African poets FTP each.
\par 1. Her first volume of poetry, Ontvlugting (Flight), attracted attention, but her  second work, Rook en oker (Smoke and Ochre), won her the Afrikaanse Pers Award and brought her general recognition.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Ingrid }
{\ul\cgrid0 Jonker}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. Primarily a lyric poet, he has moved from nostalgic evocation of an idealized Africa, as in Songs of the Shade to themes of cultural conflict and anticolonialism in Ethiopiques. President of Senegal from 1960 until his resignation in 1980 he is an Afri
can poet who writes in French.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Leopold Sedar }{\ul\cgrid0 Senghor}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. His poetry draws on the structure and images of traditional African oral verse. His volumes include Rediscovery and Other Poems;Night of My Blood;Ride Me, Memory; and The House by the Sea.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Kofi }{
\ul\cgrid0 Awoonor}{
\par }}