{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}{\printim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords3748}{\nofchars21364}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws26236}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\cgrid0 1996 ACF Nationals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech I
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1. His artistic career began with drawings that he submitted to periodicals while he was employed as a bank clerk, and in 1871 he had illustrations published in the magazine London Society. 
 He became known as a book illustrator, and his works in that area include Washington Irving's Sketchbook and Bracebridge Hall, as well as John Gilpin and The Grand Panjandrum Himself.  For 10 points, identify this 19th century English illustrator and pai
nter in honor of whom Frederic G. Melcher established in 1937 an annual prize for the most distinguished American picture book for children. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer:  Randolph }{\ul\cgrid0 Caldecott}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. Lying about 2,250 km northeast of New Zealand, this nation consists of 169 islands,
 36 of which are inhabited, which are divided into three groups, including Ha'apai and Vava'u.  For 10 points, identify this country, formerly known as the Friendly Islands, with its capital at Nuku'alofa. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Tonga}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. An encounter with Beethoven, i
n a performance of whose Battle of Vittoria this composer played the bass drum, earned him one of Beethoven's gruffer comments:  that he "never had the pluck to come in at the right time."  Salieri urged him to go to Italy, where he gained success by imit
ating the style of the young Rossini.  His operas include The Prophet, L'Africaine, and Robert the Devil.  For 10 points, identify this German-born master of grand opera whose best known work is The Huguenots. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer:  Giacomo }{\ul\cgrid0 Meyerbeer}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 4. This man joined
 the German Communist party in his teens, was imprisoned under Hitler, and rose through the party's ranks after World War II.  In 1971 he succeeded Walter Ulbricht as leader of the Socialist Unity Party, and his policy sought to strengthen the nation econ
o
mically and militarily until his ouster on October 10, 1989.  For 10 points, identify this East German leader who was put under house arrest for his lavish, privileged lifestyle at the expense of the people but who was not formally tried for corruption be
cause of his ill-health.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  Erich }
{\ul\cgrid0 Honecker}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0  
\par 5. It is approximately 2.5 planetary radii from the center, and tides at lesser distances are stronger than the mutual gravitational attraction between the two adjacent orbiting objects.  Below it, fragments are not likely to accrete into a larger object,
 and a large object would be disrupted if it were to be present.  For 10 points, identify this astronomical quantity, the minimum distance possible between a planet and a satellite that holds itself together by its own gravity. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Roche}{\cgrid0  limit or tidal stability limit
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
6. From 1924-26 this artist worked as an illustrator for the National Police Gazette, and after 1926 divided his time between the United States and France.  An important influence on his early work was the Ringling Brothers and Barnum an
d Bailey Circus, which inspired his book Animal Sketching and his work Circus. For 10 points, identify this American sculptor whose mobiles include Lobster Trap and Fish Tail and whose stabiles include Ticket Window. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer:  Alexander }{\ul\cgrid0 Calder}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 7. "From my
 mother's sleep I fell into the State/ And I hunched in its belly till my wet fur froze./ Six miles from earth, loosed from its dream of life,/ I woke to black flak and the nightmare fighters./ When I died they washed me out of the turret with a hose."  F
or 10 points, this is the text of what famous poem by Randall Jarrell?
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  The }{
\ul\cgrid0 Death of the Ball Turret Gunner}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
8. He led the revolution in 1916 against Lij Yasu, and became regent and heir to the throne.  He settled in England after the Italian conque
st but was restored in 1941 after British liberation.  For 10 points, identify this man, born as Prince Ras Tafari Makonnen, who ruled Eithiopia from 1930-36 and 1941-74. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Haile Selassie}{\cgrid0  I
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
9. Consisting of a base, collector, and emitter, it is a 
layered device consisting of two p-n junctions joined back to back.  The three layers are formed by controlled addition of impurities to a semiconductor crystal, usually silicon or germanium, and it is used in a circuit as an amplifier, rectifier, detecto
r, or switch.  For 10 points, identify this electronic device, superceding the electron tube, which was invented by John Bardeen, William Shockley, and Walter Brattain.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 transistor}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
10. Referring to the man who "could look no way but downwards," thi
s term was pejorative when used by President Theodore Roosevelt in his speech of April 14, 1906.  The emergence of the group under the name was heralded in the January 1903 issue of McClure's Magazine by articles on municipal government, labor, and trusts
 
written by Ray Stannard Baker, Ida Tarbell, and Lincoln Steffans. For 10 points, identify this group of American writers identified with pre-World War I reform and expose literature, whose name was borrowed from a passage in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progre
ss. 
\par Answer:  }{\ul\cgrid0 muckrakers}{\cgrid0 \page 
11. The New York Yacht Club is founded.  Charles Goodyear receives a patent for vulcanizing rubber.  Joseph Smith is murdered in Carthage, Illinois.  John Tyler becomes the first president to marry during his term of office.  Samuel
 Morse sends the first telegraph message.  And James K. Polk is elected president over Henry Clay and James Birney.  For 10 points, these events all occurred in what year? 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 1844}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 12. This Greek ph
ilosopher is credited with the invention of deductive mathematics, being the first to study magnetism, and being the first Greek to maintain that the moon shone by reflected sunlight.  He believed that the fundamental element of the universe was water, an
d he supposedly measured the height of an Egyptian pyramid by trigonometry.  For 10 points, identify this 6th century BC philosopher from Miletus whose most famous deed was the prediction of an eclipse of the sun that occurred in 585 BC. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Thales}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 1
3. Features of this programming language include signature-based typing and compiled-interpreted P-code, as well as built-in threading.  Its current versions also require that class definitions be in separate files.  Originally known as Oak, its syntax is
 derived primarily from C++.  For 10 points, identify this latest language from Sun Microsystems.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Java}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0  
\par 14. Dealing with abstract notions rather than with the more immediately practical concerns of "marketplace" economists, this man led in develop
ing general approaches to complex ecnomic problems.  Chief among his achievements was his "impossibility theorem," by which he was able to demonstrate that a perfect system of democratic choice-making is in principle impossible. For 10 points, identify th
is economist, author of Social Choice and Individual Values, Studies in Linear and Nonlinear Programming, and Essays in the Theory of Risk-Bearing, who in 1972 shared the Nobel Prize in Economics with Sir John Hicks of Great Britain. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer:  Kenneth Joseph }{\ul\cgrid0 Arrow}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
15. This lake is about 75 miles by 50 miles, with an average depth of 13 feet.  It is fed by the Weber, Bear, and Jordan Rivers, and contains Antelope and Fremont Islands.  For 10 points, identify this large inland lake in northwestern Utah, a rem
nant of the enormous prehistoric Lake Bonneville. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Great Salt}{\cgrid0  Lake
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
16. These structures are composed of a large and small subunit, and on the large subunit are found the P and A sites at which transfer RNA binding occurs.  They are composed of bo
th RNA and protein, and the sequence homology of a specific portion of their RNA is currently of importance in the field of molecular taxonomy.  For 10 points, identify these intracellular structures which serve as the site of protein synthesis. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 ribosomes}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
17. In his youth he was the center of a group of young men determined to overthrow the prevailing Romanticism in literature and return to classical models.  He became professor of Italian literature at Bologna and was made senator for life in 18
90.  His poetic works include Hymn to Satan, The Barbaric Odes, and Light and Serious Poems.  For 10 points, identify this Italian poet who won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1906. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  Giosue 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Carducci}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
18. Born in 1854 in North Manchester, Indiana, this man graduated from Wabash College and practiced law for 33 years before entering politics.  In 1917 he became the first man since John C. Calhoun to succeed himself as vice president, and he was also the
 
first to preside over a cabinet meeting.  For 10 points, identify this vice-president under Woodrow Wilson who is best known for his remark during an interminable Senate wrangle over national priorities that "What this country needs is a good five-cent ci
gar." 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer:  Thomas Riley }{\ul\cgrid0 Marshall}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
19. The name's the same:  In the Bible, this was the name of St. Paul's host while he was establishing a church in Thessalonica who was required to accept legal responsibility for Paul's future activity after a riot en
sued.  In Greek mythology, it was the name of the brother of Promachus whose wife Medea killed their children, and who was killed when part of his ship, the Argo, fell on him.  For 10 points, give the common name. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Jason}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
20. This element was firs
t isolated in 1803 by William Hyde Wollaston from the aqua regia extract of crude platinum.  It is used for mirror surfaces, and an alloy of it and platinum is used as a catalyst.  For 10 points, identify this white ductile metal with atomic number 45, na
med for its typically rose-colored salts. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Rhodium}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
She was born Princess Sophia Augusta Frederika of Anhalt-Zerbst in Stettin, Poland in 1729, and in 1745 she was married to the Grand Duke Peter, nephew and heir of Empress Elizabeth of Russia. FT
P, identify this mother of Paul I, who ruled as empress of Russia from 1762-96 after the ouster of Peter III. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 Catherine}{\cgrid0  II the }{\ul\cgrid0 Great}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
He judged between rival emperors Frederick II and Otto IV in Germany, and opened up a cold six-pack of interdict
 on England when King John refused to recognize Stephen Langton as Archbishop of Canterbury.  He was born Lotario de' Conti di Segni and served as pope from 1198-1216.  For 10 points, identify this man whose pontificate is regarded as the high point of th
e temporal and spiritual supremacy of the Roman see. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0  Innocent III}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
In 1740 he was commissioned surgeon's second mate in the Royal Navy; six years later, after the defeat of the Jacobite rebels at Culloden, he wrote his most famous poem, The Tears 
of Scotland. He is better known, however, for his picaresque novels, which include The Adventures of Ferdinand Count Fathom, and The History and Adventures of an Atom.  For 10 points, identify this English satirical novelist, author of the adventures of P
eregrine Pickle, Humphry Clinker, and Roderick Random. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  Tobias 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Smollett}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
This man was one of the first scientists to support the work of James Joule, and they later collaborated to elucidate the effect named for them, in which gases undergo a temperature drop upon expansion in a vacuum.  He introduced the term kinetic energy, 
a
nd invented improvements in cables and galvanometers which proved indispensable in the development and laying of the Atlantic Cable.  For 10 points, identify this Scottish mathematician and physicist for whom is named the most commonly used absolute tempe
rature scale. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer:  William Thomson, Baron }{\ul\cgrid0 Kelvin}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
They vary in degree of continuity and range in size from a few meters to tens of meters high and from a few meters to a hundred or more kilometers long.  They have steep ice-contact slopes and were depo
sited in channels confined by ice.  For 10 points, identify the name given to these sinuous ridges composed predominantly of sand and gravel deposited by glacial meltwater. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer:  }{
\ul\cgrid0 eskers}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page }{\b\cgrid0 
1996 ACF Nationals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech I
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1. For ten points apiece, identify the following dealing with naval battles ten points each:
\par 1. In 1862, the Monitor and the Merrimack fought off Newport News in this sea battle, revolutionizing sea warfare
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Hampton Roads}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. In this last major battle fought by galleys, 208 Catholic galleys defeated 273 Ottoman galleys in a three-hour clash
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Lepanto}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. In this last major battle involving wooden ships, an Egyptian fleet was defeated by a combined English, French, and Russian fleet intervening on the side of Greece in 1827.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Navarino}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following American poems for ten points on the first lines, or for five for the author
\par 1. 10 pts. Whither, 'midst falling dew,/While glow the heavens with the last steps of day,/Far through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue/Thy solitary way?
\par 5 pts. Written by William Cullen Bryant, Matthew Arnold called it 'the most perfect brief poem in the language'
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 To a Waterfowl}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10 pts. Up from the meadows rich with corn,/Clear in the cool September morn
\par 5 pts. Stonewall Jackson defends the title character in this poem written by John Greenleaf Whittier
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Barbara Frietchie}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 10 pts. This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign,/Sails the unshadowed main
\par 5 pts. Oliver Wendell Holmes
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 The Chambered Nautilus}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 3. Identify these thinkers who were aread of their time for 15 points each.
\par 1. This Italian wrote and spoke of a multiplicity of worlds, of an infinity of space, of a moving earth, and of atoms, for which he was burned at the stake in 1600.
\par \tab Answer: Giodano }{\ul\cgrid0 Bruno}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. This 15th century German cardinal held that the earth rotated on its axis, that space is infinite, and that the sun is a star like other stars.  A theologian, he argued that reason is inadequate to determine truth in On Learned Ignorance.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Nicholas}{\cgrid0  of }{\ul\cgrid0 Cusa}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 4. For 10 points each, identify the organ in which the following structures are found.
\par 1. corpus luteum\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 ovary}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. Purkinje fibers\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 heart}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. hippocampus\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 brain}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 5. Name the following acts related to labor in the United States, ten points each:
\par 1. Sponsored by a Nebraska Senator and a New York Representative, it restricted federal courts from issuing injunctions to stop union activities, and made it impossible to enforce yellow-dog contracts.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Norris-Laguardia}{\cgrid0  Act or (Anti-Injunction Act)
\par 2. It was passed by Congress in 1959 to eliminate corruption and to suppress the influence of organized crime by requiring that unions file annual financial reports showing how the dues of union members are spent
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Landrum-Griffin}{\cgrid0  Act (or Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act)
\par 3. It guaranteed the right of employees to engage in collective bargaining, and required employers to negotiate with representatives elected by workers. Its main sponsor was a New York Democrat.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 National Labor Relations}{\cgrid0  Act (or Wagner Act)
\par  
\par 6. Name the authors on a 10-5 basis
\par 1. 10 pts. The Entertainer, Inadmissable Evidence, and A Patriot for Me are works by this author who returned to the character of Jimmy Porter in Dejavu
\par 5 pts. He also wrote his autobiography A Better Class of Person, as well as Look Back in Anger
\par \tab Answer: John }{\ul\cgrid0 Osborne}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10 pts.A factory worker who left school at 14, he became an author of starkly realistic novels such as The Lost Flying Boat, The Widower's Son, and Saturday Night and Sunday Morning.
\par 5 pts. His most famous work is the story of a boy sent to a reform school who scores a triumph over the Establishment by deliberately losing a footrace, entitled The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner.
\par \tab Answer: Allan }{\ul\cgrid0 Sillitoe}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 10 pts. His works include Two of Us, Life at the Top, and The Crying Game
\par 5 pts. His novel Life at the Top, was a sequel to his first novel Room at the Top
\par \tab Answer: John }{\ul\cgrid0 Braine}{\cgrid0  
\par 
\par \page 7. 30-20-10 Identify the person
\par 1. Born in New York City in 1918, it is reported that his high school physics teacher allowed him to sit in the back of the room and solve problems using calculus while other students struggled with simple algebra.
\par 2. While earning his doctoral degree at princeton, he developed a program that eliminated non-sensical answers obtained from equations when dealing with quantum principles. At Los Alamos, he was head of the Computing Division during WWII.
\par 3. A teacher of theoretical physics at CalTech until his death in 1988, he helped develop quantum electrodynamics, winning the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physics with Julian Schinger and Sin-itiro Tomonaga.
\par \tab Answer: Richard }{\ul\cgrid0 Feynman}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 8. Answer the following questions about music theory for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For 5 points, how many sharps or flats are in the key of G-major?
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 one sharp}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. For 10 points (all or nothing), what are the notes of a C-major triad?
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 C, E, G}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. The natural minor scale is the scale which determines the key signature of a minor key; however, there are two other types of minor scale.  For 5 points for one and 15 points for both, what are they?
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 melodic}{\cgrid0  minor and }{\ul\cgrid0 harmonic}{\cgrid0  minor
\par 
\par 9. Identify the following cities excavated by archaeologists from clues on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10 pts. Uncovered by Heinrich Schliemann and others after 1876, it was an Aegean Civilization. The remains of the city include the Treasury of Atreus, the royal beehive, and the Lion Gate.
\par 5 pts. The city of Homer's Kimg Agamemnon, with the destruction of Knossos it achieved supremacy
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Mycenae}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10 pts. Excavated by C. Leonard Woolley, this city on the Euphrates was a center of Sumerian civilization and was conquered by the Akkadian Sargon
\par 5 pts. In the Bible it was identified as the home of Abraham
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Ur}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 10 pts. Alexander the Great died in this city once destroyed by the Assyrians under Sennacherib
\par 5 pts. The building of great walls, temples, and ziggurats in this city marked the reign of Nebuchadnezzar II
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Babylon}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 10. Identify the following from Japanese history for 10 points each.
\par 1. The Emperor Mutsohito was the focus of an 1868 revolution led by samurai disgruntled by foreign intrusions. For ten points, name this event named for the reign name of the emperor
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Meiji Restoration}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. Located on Honshu, it lies about 25 miles northeast of Osaka, and from its foundation in 794 AD until the 1868 Meiji Restoration, it served as the home of the Emperor and national capital
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Kyoto}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. Yoritomo Minamoto seized power as Shogun and formed this shogunate, Japan's first military government. For ten points, identify this government ruling from the 12th to the beginning of the 17th century.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Kamakura}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 11. Identify the following related people or things for 10 points each.
\par 1. Also known as scientific empiricism, this school of philosophy attempted in the 1920s to introduce the methodology and precision of mathematics to the study of philosophy.  It was led by the group know as the Vienna Circle.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 logical positivism}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. One of the foremost members of the Vienna Circle, he was a German-born American logician. He wrote that 'The only proper task of Philosophy is Logical Analysis' in his work _Philosophy and Logical Syntax_
\par \tab Answer: Rudolph }{\ul\cgrid0 Carnap}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. Born in Czechoslovakia in 1906, this American member of the Vienna Circle is more famous for his work in systems of logic
\par \tab Answer: Kurt }{\ul\cgrid0 Godel}{\cgrid0 
\par \page 12. The University of Maryland may have Geography from Hell, but we've got Geography...from Mars! Identify the following Martian features, ten points each:
\par 1. An ancient, mound shaped volcano that resembles the island of Hawaii, it is 27 kilometers above the mean surface of mars, and is the largest volcano in the solar system
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Olympus Mons}{\cgrid0  or (Nix Olympica)
\par 2. A vast system of canyons, it was originally named Coprates Canyon but was renamed in honor of a US space project. It stretches 4000 kilometers along the equitorial zone.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Valles Marineris}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. It is one of the northern plains of Mars that was not only chosen as the landing place of the Viking 2 spacecraft, but was the name of the shipyards that constructed the Enterprise-D.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Utopia Planitia}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 13. Identify the following British Prime Ministers, ten points each
\par 1. A chief founder of Britain's Labour Party and prime minister of the first and second labour governments, he lost most of his party's confidence when he headed a national coalition to deal with the Depression
\par \tab Answer: James Ramsay }{\ul\cgrid0 MacDonald}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. He was an outstanding war minister and empire builder during the Seven Years' War, and was also famous for his defense of the rights of the American colonists.
\par \tab Answer: William }{\ul\cgrid0 Pitt the Elder}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. He attempted to end the veto power of the House of Lords, established old-age pensions, and granted self-government to the Transvaal and the Orange Free State. Who was this Liberal serving from 1905-1908?
\par \tab Answer: Henry }{\ul\cgrid0 Campbell-Bannerman}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 14. Identify the following concepts dealing with Buddhism, ten points each
\par 1. Translating as 'great vehicle,' it has as its central concept the potential Buddhahood innate in all beings. It is prominent in Nepal, Korea, Indonesia, Japan, and China
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Mahayana}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. In Mahayana Buddhism, they are the perfected ones who postpone entry into nirvana until all others may be similarly enlightened
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Bodhisattva}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. Nirvana releases one from this, the bondage to the repeating cycle of births and deaths according to one's physical and mental actions
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Samsara}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 15. Identify these English plays for 10 points given a plot summary or for 5 points if you need the author.
\par 1. 10 pts: It deals with John Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff and their eventually successful courtship of Gwendolyn Fairfax and Cecily Cardew.
\par 5 pts: This comedy was the last play by Oscar Wilde.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\ul\cgrid0 Importance of Being Earnest}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10 pts: Martin Dysart a psychiatrist and amateur mythologist who narrates the events of the rehabilitation oof the 17 year old boy, Alan Strang.
\par \tab 5 pts: Strang was a stable boy who had been arrested for blinding six horses.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Equus
\par 3. 10 pts. The author's ideas about the "life force" are embodied in the characters of the battling lovers Ann Whitefield and John Tanner.
\par 5 pts. This George Bernard Shaw play contains the separable and sometimes omitted section 'Don Juan in Hell.'
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Man and Superman}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 16. It's time for a geography question from the continent that gave us Nicole Kidman, Koalas, and Foster's Beer.
\par 1. Foster's might call it Australian for puddle, but it's the largest lake in Australia, as well as the lowest point on the continent
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Lake Eyre}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. The Darling and Murrumbidgee rivers are the major tributaries of this longest river in Australia
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Murray}{\cgrid0  River
\par 3. Running from North Queensland to Tasmania, it runs parallel to the eastern coast. For ten points, name this 'Australian speedbump' that contains Mt. Kosciusko
\par \tab Anwer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Great Dividing Range}{\cgrid0 
\par \page 17. Identify the following from number theory, ten points each
\par 1. This structure has two operations, one of which is an abelian group, is commutative, distributive, has a multiplicative identiy, and every nonzero element is a unit, or divides the multiplicative identity
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Field}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. On a field, if a number cannot be derived algebraically, then it is this kind of number
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Transcendental}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. It states that every integer greater than two is either a prime or a product of a unique factorization of primes
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 18. Answer the following questions about ammonia for the stated number of points?
\par 1. For 5 points, what is its chemical formula?
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 NH}{\ul\dn6\cgrid0 3}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. For 10 points, what is the geometrical structure of the molecule?
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 trigonal pyramidal}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. For 15 points, ammonium is the starting material for the production of nitric acid in what chemical process named for a Latvian-born German physical chemist?
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Ostwald}{\cgrid0  process
\par 
\par 19. Identify the following American architects from clues for 15 points each.
\par 1. A partner with C. F.
 McKim and William R. Mead, he specialized in interior design and furnishing, and the decorative aspects of a building.  His two surviving New York City works, the Washington Arch and the Century Club, reveal his interest in Renaiisance ornament.
\par \tab Answer: Stanford }{\ul\cgrid0 White}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. Born in Cleveland, this architect designed a glass house in New Canaan, CT which reveals the influence of Mies Van der Rohe.  He also designed the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center and the A.T.& T. Headquarters Building.
\par \tab Answer: Philip }{\ul\cgrid0 Johnson}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 20. Identify the American author from works, 30-20-10.
\par 1. Taps at Reveille, All the Sad Young Men
\par 2. The Crack-Up, The Diamond as Big as the Ritz
\par 3. The Beautiful and the Damned, Tender is the Night
\par \tab Answer: F. Scott }{\ul\cgrid0 Fitzgerald}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Identify the following Nazis for ten points each:
\par 1. Influential in forming the Rome-Berlin Axis and the German-Soviet pact, this German foreign minister was hanged as a war criminal
\par \tab Answer: Joachim von }{\ul\cgrid0 Ribbentrop}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. His memoirs, _Inside the Third Reich_, gave insight into his role as Hitler's official architect and minister of armaments
\par \tab Answer: Albert }{\ul\cgrid0 Speer}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. His book, _The Myth of the 20th Century_, supplied Hitler with the spurious philosophical and scientific basis for the Nazi racist doctrines
\par \tab Answer: Alfred }{\ul\cgrid0 Rosenberg}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Identify these leaders ofof Russia
\par 1. A child of Paul I, this ruler made a tenuous alliance with France by signing the Treaty of Tilsit after Russian defeats by Napoleon I
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Alexander I}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. The Decembrists revolt occurred on the first day of this ruler's reign. Events during this period included the codification of laws and the completion of the first Russian railroad.
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Nicholas I}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. Events during the reign of this ruler include Pugachev's peasant uprising, as well as the annexation of the Crimea, colonization of Alaska, and the partitions of Poland
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Catherine I}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Identify the fictional family given members for 10 points, or the author for five points:
\par 1. 10 pts Johann, Johann Jr. or Jean, Gotthold
\par 5pts Thomas Mann
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Buddenbrooks}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10 pts Irene, Jolyon, Jon, Fleur
\par 5 pts John Galsworthy
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Forsyte}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 10 pts Byron, Mink, Ike
\par 5 pts Faulkner
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Snopes}{
\par }}