{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}
{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}{\printim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3430}{\nofchars19556}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws24016}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\cgrid0 1996 ACF Nationals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech II
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1. In 1654 she abdicated the throne, had her cousin Charles recognized as her successor, and announced that she had converted to Roman Catholicism.  Highly intelligent, she was interested i
n intellectual pursuits and was influenced by the French philosopher Ren\'8e Descartes.  FTP identify this Swedish queen, the successor to Gustavus Adolphus.
\par \tab \tab Answer:  }{\ul\cgrid0 Christina}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 2. In 1898, he was appointed curator of the newly established Gustave Moreau Mu
seum in Paris.  During a spiritual crisis, he became obsessed with evil, which he saw everywhere.  In his paintings, conventional values are overturned- judges are seen as ape-like monsters and whores as saintly women. FTP name this French artist who work
ed with stained-glass and is famous for the work The Old King. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Georges 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Rouault}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. This novel in set in the imaginary South American republic of Costaguana.  Charles Gould, head of the Gould concession silver mine in the province of Sulaco, entrust
s his silver to this title character, which is the nickname of an Italian named Capatez de Cargadores.  Afterwards it is believed that the silver had sunk into the sea and the suddenly wealthy Capatez is shot by an old lighthouse keeper by the end of this
 1904 novel.  FTP, what is this novel by Joseph Conrad? 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Nostromo}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 4. He
 was sent to London in 1648 as an apprentice to the painter Peter Lely.  But he abandoned this artistic pursuit to attend college where his chemistry professor, Thomas Willis, helped him get a job assisting Robert Boyle improve the air pump.  FTP, identit
y this scientist who in 1665, put forth his undulatory theory of light in his Micrographia. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Robert }
{\ul\cgrid0 Hooke}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
5. His children's books include }{\ul\cgrid0 The Lost Zoo}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 My Lives and How I Lost Them}{\cgrid0 .  He also wrote the 1931 novel }{\ul\cgrid0 One Way to Heaven}{\cgrid0 . Strongly influ
enced by Keats, his poetry was published in such collections as }{\ul\cgrid0 The Medea and Some Poems}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Copper Sun}{\cgrid0 .  FTP, identify this 1903-born Harlem Renaissance figure best-known for the 1929 collection }{\ul\cgrid0 
The Black Christ and Other Poems}{\cgrid0 . 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Countee 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Cullen}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 6
. A leader of this religion imposed a "uniform" on the male faithful, called the "Five Ks": uncut hair, a comb, a band on the right wrist, a dagger, and short pants.  Their scripture is the Adi Granth or the Guru Granth Sahib.  FTP name this religion foun
ded during the early 1500's in Sultanpur, near Amritsar by Guru Nanak. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Sikhism}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
7. The fourth measure provided that the territory east of California ceded to the U.S. by Mexico was divided into the territories of New Mexico and Utah and be open to 
both slaveholders and antislavery settlers.  The fifth measure provided that Texas be awarded $10 million in settlement of claims to adjoining territory.  The third bill was the Fugitive Slave Law.  The first 2 measures authorized abolition of the slave t
rade in the District of Columbia and admission of California as a free state. FTP name these legislative measures sometimes referred to collectively as the Omnibus Bill. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Compromise of 1850}{\cgrid0  (prompt for more on "Omnibus bill" prior to it being said)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
8. In this procedure, bauxite is purified and mixed with cryolite, and the mixture is then heated in carbon-lined cells until it melts.  Graphite anodes are lowered into the cell, and a large direct electric current is passed through the molten electrolyt
e.  This process makes molten aluminum collect in the bottom of the cell from which it can be tapped off.  FTP name this process that bears the name of either of its two discoverers one an American, the other a Frenchman.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Hall}{\cgrid0  process or }{\ul\cgrid0 Heroult}{\cgrid0  process of }{\ul\cgrid0 Hall-Heroult}{\cgrid0  
\par 
\par 9. In this battle, German pikemen and Spanish arquebusiers of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V's army under Ferdinando Francesco d'Avalos defeated a French army of heavy cavalry.  The French army was led by Francis I and was aided by 
Swiss and German mercenaries.  FTP name this 1525 battle which gave Spain control of Italy.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Pavia}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
10. Considered a leading proponent of the economic theory that free market forces, rather than increased government intervention, can most effectively produce a balanced and noninflationary rate of economic growth, he is an exponent of the policy that the
 Federal Reserve System can best promote economic stability by increasing the supply of money at a fairly fixed rate instead of sharply expanding or contracting it.  FTP name this 1976 winner of the Nobel Prize in economics. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Milton }
{\ul\cgrid0 Friedman}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 11. In
 its best known version it runs: 'Act only on the maxim through which you can, at the same time will that it be a universal law'. More generally known as the Moral law, it is formulated from the idea that morality begins with the rejection of non- univers
alizable principles.  FTP name this keystone of Immanuel Kant's ethics.  
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Categorical Imperative}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
12. This estate was deeded to Harvard in 1940 by the American diplomat Robert Woods Bliss.  In 1944 it was the site of conversations conducted by repre
sentatives of the U.S., China, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union, that resulted in Proposals named after this estate.  FTP name this estate which shares its name with the basic plan from which the charter of the United Nations was developed at the San F
rancisco Conference in 1945. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Dumbarton Oaks}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
13. At times a painter, he also drove an ambulance in Europe during World War I, but then, so did everyone else.  Author of a play, }{\ul\cgrid0 Santa Claus}{\cgrid0 , and composer of a ballet, }{\ul\cgrid0 Tom}{\cgrid0 , his most important works ar
e considered to be the drama }{\ul\cgrid0 Him}{\cgrid0  and the novel }{\ul\cgrid0 The Enormous Room}{\cgrid0 , though he is best-known for his poetry.  FTP, identify this American poet whose collections, including }{\ul\cgrid0 XLI Poems}{\cgrid0  and }{
\ul\cgrid0 Tulips and Chimneys}{\cgrid0 , showcase his unusual punctuation and typography. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: e e }{
\ul\cgrid0 cummings}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
14. Among its major tributaries are the Zeya, Sungari, Ussuri, and Bureya rivers.  It is formed by the junction of the Shilka and Argun rivers. About 2,865 km long, it empties into the Tatar Strait.  FTP name this river that for almost 
1,610 km forms the border between Russia and China. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Amur}{\cgrid0  river
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
15. One account says that she flies through the air with the wings of a falcon.  In Wagner's Ring of the Nibelungs, she was given to the giants as payment for their construction of Va
lhalla.  FTP, who was this daughter of Njord, owner of the necklace Brisingamen, and Norse goddess of love? 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Freya}{\cgrid0  or Frey or Frig or Frigga
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
16. He was the illegitimate son of Godigiselus, who led an invasion of Gaul.  He succeeded his brother as king in 428. The next year he led all his people from Spain to Africa.  After a triumphant progress across northern Africa, he captured Carthage in 4
39, and made the city his capital.  Later, he sacked Rome in 455, invaded Greece and Dalmatia, and threatened Constantinople.  FTP name this man who from 428-477 was king of the Vandals. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Gaiseric}{\cgrid0  or }{\ul\cgrid0 Genseric}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
17. They were first discovered in the e
arly 1950s by Christian de Duve.  Between 0.5 and 1.0 micrometers in diameter, they are surrounded by a single membrane.  Synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum, they are then transported to the Golgi apparatus in an inactive form.  They pass thro
ugh the Golgi, become activated, and then bud off the end of the Golgi.  FTP, identify these cellular organelles, named for their role in cellular-level digestion, that store hydrolases. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Answer:  primary }{\ul\cgrid0 lysosome}{\cgrid0  (accept lysosome; don't accept }{\ul\cgrid0 secondary lysosome}{\cgrid0 )
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
18. His spectacular career ended in 1918 when he became the victim of schizophrenia, from which he never fully recovered.  Earlier, he had choreographed Debussy's L'Apres-midi d'un faune and Jeux and Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring.  A
 Russian dancer and choreographer, he took lead roles in ballets such as Petrushka. FTP name this legendary member of Diaghilev's Ballet Russes. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Vaslav }
{\ul\cgrid0 Nijinsky}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
19. In 1513, he purchased 800 building stones and a barrel of lime to construct a tow
er for making observations of the night sky.  From these observations, he concluded that the universe is finite, spherical in shape, and that celestial bodies always move in a circular motion.  FTP, identify this person who in his, Commentariolus, put for
th his heliocentric theory of the solar system. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Nicolas 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Copernicus}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
20. When he was only 19, he published his first book of poems Luna silvestre.  In 1968, after 25 years in the diplomatic service, he resigned his post as ambassador to India to pro
test his government's suppression of a student-worker demonstration.  His most prominent theme is human ability to overcome existential solitude through erotic love and artistic creativity.  In The Labyrinth of Solitude, he analyzed his home country of Me
xico. FTP name this 1990 winner of the Nobel Prize. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Octavio 
}{\ul\cgrid0 Paz}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
21. Born in Little Britain, New York, he was a brigadier general in the American Revolution, who was prevented by his military duties from signing the Declaration of Independence.  He
 was twice elected vice president: in 1804, serving under Thomas Jefferson, and in 1808, under James Madison.  FTP name this first governor of New York.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 George Clinton}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
22. In 1825, in order to make possible a civil service career, he resentfully c
onverted from Judaism to Protestantism.  The conflict between his liberal views and the oppressive regime in Prussia drew him to Paris in 1831 and he remained there for the rest of his life.  In 1835, a Prussian edict prohibited his writings in Germany, n
aming him as a leader in the Young Germany movement with which he had been only been peripherally associated.  FTP name this German poet, satirist, and journalist who wrote }{\ul\cgrid0 Book of Songs}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Germany, A Winter's Tale}{
\cgrid0 . 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Heinrich }{\ul\cgrid0 Heine}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
23. The principle entrance into this structure is the Redeemer s Gate through which everyone must take off their hat when passing through.  Occupying 90 acres, its name comes from the Russian for a citadel.  For ten points, what is this triangular structu
re situated in the middle of Moscow? 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Kremlin}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
24. The title character's family endures many trials- including the loss of most of their money, the seduction of one daughter, Olivia by Squire Thornhill, the destruction of their home by fire, and the
 title character's incarceration- before all is put right in the end.  FTP name this novel, whose narrator and title character is Dr. Primrose, written by Oliver Goldsmith.
\par \tab \tab Answer: The }{\ul\cgrid0 Vicar of Wakefield}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 25. Published in 1951, it is the story of an uppe
r-middle-class girl whose suicide is seen in a series of flashbacks-among them a country club dance, a Christmas dinner, a football game, and a wedding.  FTP name this novel centered on the Virginian, Peyton - the first by William Styron.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Lie Down in Darkness}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 25.
\par 
\par In 1970, he became the world's first democratically elected Marxist President.  3 years later, he was killed during a military coup.  He helped found the Socialist Party of his country in 1933.  FTP name this politician from Chile. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answe
r: Salvador Allende
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
 Edgardo in Donizetti's Lucia di Lamermoor, Liu in Puccini's Turandot, Cio-Cio San in Puccini's Madame Butterfly, and Juliet in Gounod's Romeo and Juliet all have this in common.  FTP how also does Verdi's Otello die? 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: suicide 
(by stabbing)
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page }{\b\cgrid0 
1996 ACF Nationals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech II
\par }{\cgrid0 
\par 1. FTP each identify the following treaties in British history: 
\par 1. England along with the other Allied Powers signed this with Germany to end WWI in 1919. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Treaty of }{\ul\cgrid0 Versailles}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. This treaty ended the Great Northern War. his successor in this treaty. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Peace of }{\ul\cgrid0 Nystadt}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Henry II was recognized as Stephen's heir to the throne of England by this treaty 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Treaty of }{\ul\cgrid0 Winchester}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. FTP each, identify the computer operating system from descriptions.
\par 1.  A distributed operating system, it was recently made available for purchase by the general public.  Intended mainly as  a technology research platform to develop new ideas for the Solaris operating system, this Sun opera
ting system is highly modular and object-oriented.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Spring}{\cgrid0 
\par 2.  Brought to you by the same fine folks who developed Unix, this AT&T operating system is also a distributed operating system and in many respects is a logical extension of the Unix idea
 that all system components should be treated as files.  It was named by its creators for their favorite movie. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Plan 9}{\cgrid0  from AT&T
\par 3.  Originally written by Linus Torvalds, a Finnish undergraduate CS student, this freely-distributable Unix clone i
s now developed by Torvalds and others over the Internet.  Originally written for the Intel 80x86 (READ: 8-0-X-8-6) processor, it now runs on Alphas, Sparcs, Motorola 680x0, (READ: 6-8-0-X-0) and many other platforms.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Linux}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 3. Identify the German literary works from characters FTP each. You'll only get five points if you also need the author. 
\par 1. 10.  Paul Baumer \tab \tab 5.  Erich Maria Remarque 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 All Quiet On the Western Front}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. 10.  Tadzio and Gustave von Aschenbach \tab 5.  Thomas Mann 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Death In Venice}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. 10.  Marie Derkum and Hans Schnier \tab 5.  Heinrich Boll 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 The Clown}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
4. 30-20-10 Identify the American politician: 
\par 1. He was elected to the state legislature and from 1851-1855 served in the US House of Representatives.  From January to April 1865 he was secretary of war in the cabinet of Confederate President Jefferson Davis. 
\par 2. From Kentucky, he was elected vice president of the US in 1856. 
\par 3. A leading spokesman of the proslavery faction of the Democratic party, he was nominated for the presidency by that faction in 1860. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: John }{
\ul\cgrid0 Breckinridge}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
5. Identify the artist who create the following Madonnas for 10 points, given another clue for 5 points.
\par 1. 10 pts: Madonna of the Rocks \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 5 pts: the Mona Lisa
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Leonardo}{\cgrid0  da Vinci or }{\ul\cgrid0 da Vinci}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10 pts: Madonna of the Meadow\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 5 pts: His father Jacopo and Brother Gentile were both artists
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Giovanni Bellini}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 10 pts: Madonna and Child with St Martina and St. Agnes\tab \tab 5 pts: View of Toledo
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 El Greco}{\cgrid0  or Domenikos }{\ul\cgrid0 Theotokopolis}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 6. FTP each identify the Thomas Pynchon novel: 
\par 1. This recounts the search of Benny Profane and Herbert Stencil for a woman who surfaces in various incarnations and guises at crucial moments in late 19th and early 20th century Europe. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 V}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. This sprawling narrative comprises numerous threads having to do either directly or tangentially with the secret development and deployment of a rocket by the Nazis near the end of WWII. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Gravity's Rainbow}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 3. 
In this novel Pynchon described a woman's strange quest to discover the mysterious, conspiratorial Tristero System in a futuristic world of closed societies. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: The }{
\ul\cgrid0 Crying of Lot 49}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 \page 
7. Answer these questions about Peter the Great on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 1. 5 pts: In 1703, he began to build a new capital in this city. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: St. }{
\ul\cgrid0 Petersburg}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. 10 pts: Name his wife who succeeded him at his death. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Catherine I}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. 15 pts: Name Peter's father, who was the Russian Tsar during the First Northern War. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Alexis}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
8. Answer the following questions from chemistry for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  Many substances found in nature are optically active, a condition generally denoted by single letter prefixes.  
\par 1. For 5 points each, what two lower case letters are used for these designations?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 d}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 l}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. For 10 points each, for what words do the letters "d" and "l" stand?
\par \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 dextrorotatory}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 levorotatory}{\cgrid0  (respectively)
\par 
\par 9. It's time to play the name game!  For example, given the clue: A U2 song from the Reality Bites album and a Thomas Wolfe novel, you would say: All I Want is You Can't Go Home Again. 
\par 1. A Nirvana remake of a David Bowie song and a sonnet by William Wordsworth 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: The }{
\ul\cgrid0 Man Who Sold the World is Too Much With Us}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. An REM song from Automatic For the People and a novel by Somerset Maugham whose hero is Charles Strickland. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Man on the Moon and Sixpence}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. A song by Hootie and the Blowfish off of Cracked Rear View and a novel by Alan Paton.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Let her Cry The Beloved Country}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 10.  Identify the following about the Greek underworld.
\par 1. For 10 points, name the deepest region of the Greek underworld, as far below Hades as Olympus was above earth.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Tartarus}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. For 10 pts, on arrival to Hades, dead people who were good in their former life were sent here. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Elysian}{\cgrid0  Fields or }{\ul\cgrid0 Elysium}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. For 10 pts, the gods can never break an oath if they swear upon the name of this river. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Styx}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
11. FTP each given a major character in a work by Mark Twain, name the work.
\par 1. Jim Smiley\tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: The }{\ul\cgrid0 Celebrated Jumping Fog of Calaveras County}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. Philip Traum\tab \tab \tab Answer: The }{\ul\cgrid0 Mysterious Stranger}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. Hank Morgan\tab \tab \tab Answer: A }{\ul\cgrid0 Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 12. For 5 points apiece and a 5 point bonus for all correct, answer these questions about the 2 Battles of New Orleans:
\par 1. 5 pts: What American general led the 6500 American troops in 1815?
\par \tab \tab Answer: Andrew }{\ul\cgrid0 Jackson}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. 10 pts: What British general led the British force of about 7500 in 1815?
\par \tab \tab Answer: Sir Edward }{\ul\cgrid0 Pakenham}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 5 pts: On April 18, 1862, he massed his fleet below Forts Jackson and Saint Philip, located on opposite sides of the Mississippi River south of the New Orleans to bombard Confederate forts there.
\par \tab \tab Answer: David }{\ul\cgrid0 Farragut}{\cgrid0 
\par 4. 10 pts: The naval squadron under Farragut, carried troops led by this man, who from May-December 1862 was military governor of New Orleans.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Benjamin }{\ul\cgrid0 Butler}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par 13. For 10 points, each, identify the character who kill the following characters in operas by the following composers.
\par 1. He killed Bizet's Carmen
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Don Jose}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. He killed Gounod's Tybalt
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Romeo}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. He killed Lensky in a work by Tchaikovsky
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Eugene Onegin
\par }{\cgrid0 \page 14. FTP each identify the following philosophers: 
\par 1. Before
 finishing his medical studies, he went on an exploring expedition in Brazil with the Swiss-American naturalist Louis Agassiz and also studied physiology in Germany.  He wrote such works as Human Immortality and The Varieties of Religious Experience

\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0  \tab 
\tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 William James}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. His voluminous writings include Psychology, The School and Society, and Democracy and Education. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: John }{
\ul\cgrid0 Dewey}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. Living from 1855-1916, this American philosopher and teacher, was the leading American exponent of idealism. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Josiah }
{\ul\cgrid0 Royce}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
15. Identify the following effects for 15 pts each: 
\par 1. If an electric current is passed through a circuit in which there are 2 junctions between dissimilar metals, one junction is heated and the other cooled. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Peltier}{\cgrid0  effect
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. If 2 wires of different metals are welded together at both ends to form a loop, an electric current will flow through the loop if the 2 junctions are at different temperatures. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Seebeck}{\cgrid0  effect
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
16. Identify these authors from works on a 10-5 basis. 
\par 1. 10 pt:  The novel }{\ul\cgrid0 The End of the Road}{\cgrid0  and the story collection }{\ul\cgrid0 Lost In the Funhouse}{\cgrid0 . 
\par     5 pt:  The novella collection }{\ul\cgrid0 Chimera}{\cgrid0  and the novels }{\ul\cgrid0 The Sot-Weed Factor}{\cgrid0 . 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Answer:  John }{\ul\cgrid0 Barth}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. 10 pts: The tragedy in 3 acts,  Blues for Mr. Charlie
\par     5 pts: the novel, Go Tell It on the Mountain
\par \tab \tab Answer: James }{\ul\cgrid0 Baldwin}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. 10 pts:  The novels }{\ul\cgrid0 The Little Minister}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Sentimental Tommy}{\cgrid0 . 
\par     5 pts:  The plays }{\ul\cgrid0 What Every Woman Knows}{\cgrid0  and }{\ul\cgrid0 Peter Pan}{\cgrid0 . 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Answer:  Sir J.M. }{\ul\cgrid0 Barrie}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
17. On a 10-5 basis, identify the Chinese dynasty: 10 points given a description and 5 points given the dates of the dynasty.
\par 1.  10 pts: Also called the Yin dynasty, it is the earliest Chinese dynasty to be historically verified by archaelogical evidence and written inscriptions. 
\par      5 pts: c. 1523 - c. 1028 BC 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Shang}{\cgrid0  dynasty
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. 10 pts: The Chinese Examination System was instituted in this dynasty 
\par     5 pts: 202 BC-220 AD 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Han}{\cgrid0  Dynasty
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. 10 pts: It was conquered by the Mongols under Kublai Khan, who replaced it with the Yuan dynasty. 
\par     5 pts:: 960-1279 AD 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 Sung}{\cgrid0  or Song dynasty
\par 
\par 18. Identify the following laws for 10 pts each: 
\par 1. When 2 elements combine to form more than one compound, the weight of one element which will combine with a fixed weight of the other element is in the ratio of simple whole numbers. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Law of }
{\ul\cgrid0 Multiple Proportions}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2. When elements combine to form compounds they do so in fixed proportions by weight. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Law of }
{\ul\cgrid0 Definite Proportions}{\cgrid0  or Law of }{\ul\cgrid0 Constant Composition}{\cgrid0  or }{\ul\cgrid0 Constant Proportion}{\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. In a vessel containing a mixture of gas, each gas would exert the same pressure as it would if the other constituents were not present. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Dalton's Law of }{\ul\cgrid0 Partial Pressures}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
19. FTP each it's time to Name the Nazi.
\par 1. He wrote The Myth of the 20th Century.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Alfred }{\ul\cgrid0 Rosenberg}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. He wrote Inside the Third Reich and was an architect who  oversaw much of the economy before the end of WWII.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Albert }{\ul\cgrid0 Speer}{\cgrid0 
\par 3. He comm
anded the SA (Sturmabteilung), or storm troops, the military arm of the Nazi party. From 1923-1931, he lived in Bolivia after the Nazis failed to seize power in Bavaria. At Hitler's request he returned home in 1931 and was again put in charge of the SA.  
Hitler had him murdered in the Night of the  Long Knives.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Ernst }{\ul\cgrid0 Roehm}{\cgrid0 
\par \page 20. FTP each answer these geographical questions about Australia: 1. Lake Eyre and the city of Salisbury are located in what state? \tab Answer: }{\ul\cgrid0 South Australia}{\cgrid0 
\par 2. Name the 150,000 square mile desert in Western Australia. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Great Sandy}{\cgrid0  Desert
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
3. What strait separates Australia from Tasmania? 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 Bass}{\cgrid0  Strait
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Identify the patron saint of the following on a 10-5 basis: 
\par 10 Accountants, bankers, bookkeepers, and tax collectors 
\par 5 His is the first book in the New Testament. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Matthew

\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 10 Astronomers 
\par 5 In 1216, he won the consent of Pope Honorius III to form a new religious order
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: Dominic

\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
10 Locksmiths and fishermen 
\par 5  He was the first pope. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer:  St. Peter
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Identify the painting 30-20-10-5: 
\par 30: It was rediscovered in 1861, having been covered over with a panel painting by Vasari.  On the stone wall of the narrow tomb in the painting is written the inscription, "I was once what you are and what I am you will become". 
\par 20: Unlike many of the painter's works which are in the Brancacci Chapel, it was commissioned for the church of the Santa Maria Novella.  It consists of 6 figures, the 2 on the lower step being donors. 
\par 10: Masaccio painted it. 
\par 5: The focus of the painting is on the bearded figure behind a cross, a dove, and a man on the cross. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: The Trinity or The Holy Trinity
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
20. For five points each, provide the name of a vitamin given its common name. 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-2736\li2736\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
1.  vitamin B3 \tab \tab \tab Answer:  nicotinic acid (accept niacin)
\par }\pard \qj\fi-3456\li3456\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
2.  vitamin A \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:  retinol (accept retinoic acid)
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 3.  vitamin B1 \tab 
\tab \tab Answer:  thiamine
\par 4.  vitamin B2 \tab \tab \tab Answer:  riboflavin
\par 5.  folic acid \tab \tab \tab Answer:  pteroylglutamic acid
\par 6.  vitamin C \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: Answer:  ascorbic acid
\par 
\par 24. Identify the fictitious person 30-20-10: 
\par 30 He was created by Fran Striker and George W. Trendle. 
\par 20 He was the secret identity of the Texas Ranger John Reid. 
\par 10 His sidekick was named Tonto. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
Answer: Answer: The Lone Ranger
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 
25. For 5 points apiece and a 5 point bonus for all correct, identify the painters of the following Madonnas that are not by Raphael. 
\par ess the author from clues.  You'll get three tries (30,20,10). 
\par 30: As a young man, he moved to Texas, where he edited and published }{\ul\cgrid0 The Rollin
\par g Stone}{\cgrid0 , a humor magazine. 
\par 20: His first story, "Whistling Dick's Christmas Stocking," was published in }{\ul\cgrid0 Mc
\par Clure's Magazine}{\cgrid0 . 
\par 10: His real name was William Sydney Porter. 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\cgrid0 Answer: }{
\ul\cgrid0 O. Henry}{\cgrid0  (accept William Sydney }{\ul\cgrid0 Porter}{\cgrid0  if BEFORE 10)
\par }}