{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright 
\f6 \snext15 WP Defaults;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f6\fs27 Default Paragraph Fo;}}{\info{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min6}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min7}{\printim\yr1999\mo1\dy8\hr18\min7}{\version2}
{\edmins1}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords4420}{\nofchars25195}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws30941}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\b\f0 1996 ACF Nationals 
\par Questions by Illinois A
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Born Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti, he became known as Pio Nono during his ascent through the Catholic hierarchy which saw him Archbishop of Spoleto in 1827, Cardinal in 1840 and Pope in 18
46.  During his 32- year pontificate, the longest in history, he declared the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception and refused to recognize the inclusion of Rome into the new Italian state. FTP name this pontiff who called the first Vatican Council which
 proclaimed papal infallibity.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Pius IX}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2.  It is either a tinguaite or a phonolite, depending on whether you think it is a volcanic plug or a flow.  Northern plains tribes knew it as Bears Lodge.  Rising 865 feet near the Belle Fourche river, it was established as the first national monument i
n 1906.  FTP name this monolith, located in the Black Hills of Wyoming.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Devil's Tower}{\f0 
\par 
\par 3. Born Paolo Di Dono, this artist took a name which means "bird" in Italian because he loved animals.  An apprentice to Ghiberti and a member of Donatello's ci
rcle, according to Vasari his daughter said that he "would stand the whole night through beside his writing-desk seeking new terms for the expression of his rules of  perspective...".  In fact his name became so identified with perspective that he is ofte
n considered to have invented it, though this is probably not the case.  FTP name this artist responsible for works such as The Deluge, The Hunters in the Forest and The Battle of San Romano.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Paolo }{
\f0\ul Uccello}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
4. Late in his career, while a navy commis
sioner, he presided over the court-martial of James Barron.  His earlier exploits included failing in 1815 to run a blockade of New York Harbor, after which he was captured by the British.  He served more dashingly in the Tripolitan War, leading a mission
 to burn the frigate Philadelphia after it fell into enemy hands.  FTP name this man who was killed in a duel with Barron, best known for the statement "our country, right or wrong."
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Stephen }{
\f0\ul Decatur}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
5. In 1827 he wrote the essay "On Murder Considered as One of the Fine Arts," a brilliant exception to his usual tortured, opium-induced visions.  FTP name this British essayist who told his story in the 1821 "Confessions of an English Opium Eater."

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Thomas }{
\f0\ul De Quincey}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
6. Created in 1901 by Gilber
t Lewis, it received its name because the driving force for spontaneous processes produced by chemical potentials differences was described as an "escaping tendency", hence the use of this word whose obsolete meaning was that of the defining attributes of
 
a fugitive.  Formally defined as e to the quantity change in chemical potential divided by RT minus the natural log of the initial pressure, it replaces the pressure when calculating thermodynamic quantities for real fluids.  FTP name this property of a s
ubstance which is equal to the pressure in an ideal gas and which is symbolized small script F.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Fugacity}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
7. The name is the same.  A type of psychological therapy developed by Fredrick Perls that is characterized by attempts to deal with problems b
y helping clients achieve awareness of all their experiences and needs, and the type of psychology developed by Kurt Koffka, Max Wertheimer and Wolfgang Kohler in which they stated that perception depends on the brain's tendency to organize pieces of sens
ory information into organized wholes.  FTP give the common name which means shape in German.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Gestalt}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
8. They have a type of cytoplasmic activity called axoplasmic transport and also contain tiny structures called nissil bodies.  Their central core is called the axis cylinder and many have an outer covering called the neurilemma.  Their main cell body is 
called the perikaryon and they have indentations called nodes of Ranvier.  FTP name these type of cells which are the functional unit of the nervous system and which have axons and dendrites.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Neuron}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
9. Ezell Blair, David Richmond, Franklin McCain a
nd Joseph McNeil started them on February 1, 1960.  They went into the still segregated department store and simply asked for Coca-Cola which they were refused. The next day they returned with sixteen fellow students and the next with sixty-three. One eld
e
rly white woman was trying to use the ladies room when she saw two black girls and exclaimed "Nigras, Nigras everywhere!"  Soon it had spread and the Woolworth's shut down rather than give in to the protest.  FTP name these famous sit-ins which were named
 for the North Carolina town in which they occurred.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Greensboro}{\f0  Sit-ins
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 \page 
10. This autobiographical work is a portrait of Pao-yu, the petted, spoiled younger son of the powerful aristocratic Chia family which is in financial decline.  Originally publ
ished in 1792, this novel is a long and complicated work with over 400 characters.  The works first 58 chapters were written by its author, and the next forty were added after his death by Kao Ou.  FTP name this great Chinese novel by Ts"ao Hsueh-ch"in.

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: The }{
\f0\ul Dream of the Red Chamber}{\f0  or The }{\f0\ul Story of the Stone}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Shih-t"ou chi}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
11. Composed in the Soviet Union, transferred to microfilm and flown secretly to the United States, Toscanini and Stokowski both struggled to be allowed to premiere this work.  
Finally broadcast in July 1942 by Toscanini, its composer, Dmitri Shostakovich, appeared on the cover of Time Magazine to honor it.  FTP name this 7th symphony which was written to honor the people of a Soviet city that was being besieged by the German ar
my.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Leningrad}{\f0  symphony (ask for more info on early buzz with 7th symphony)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
12. Born in 1606 into a well-to-do family, he became a lawyer like his father and his grandfather before him, and was a king's counselor for twenty years.  It is not as a la
wyer that he is known today, but rather as a poet and dramatist, and is in fact considered by many to be the creator of French classical tragedy. FTP name this author of }{\f0\ul Horace}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Cinna}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Le Cid}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Pierre }{
\f0\ul Corneille}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
13. Fired from his job as Preside
nt of the University of Arkansas because his mother wrote an editorial criticizing the Governor, he entered Congress.  There he submitted the resolution that created the United Nations, cast the lone vote in the Senate against McCarthy's anticommunist inv
e
stigation and chaired the televised Foreign Relations Committee hearings that helped turned the country against the Vietnam War.  FTP name this Arkansas Rhodes Scholar best known for establishing the international exchange program which is named after him
.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: J. William }
{\f0\ul Fulbright}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
14. Discovered in 1892 by Edward Barnard, it was originally known as Barnard's satellite or Jupiter V.  Closer to Jupiter than the Galilean moons, this satellite is probably a captured asteroid.  FTP name this satellite, which was named after the goat in 
Greek mythology who nursed Zeus.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Amalthea}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
15. While a young man he observed two snakes mating.  When they attacked him he killed the female and was turned into a woman and became a prostitute.  Returning seven years later she observed the same scen
e, but this time killed the male and was changed back.  Because he had been both a man and a woman he was called in as a judge when Zeus was arguing with Hera whether women or men got more pleasure from sex.  When he sided with Zeus, Hera blinded him in a
nger, but Zeus pitied him and gave him the gift of prophecy.  FTP name this prophet of Thebes who appeared in Sophocles" Oedipus trilogy.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Tiresias}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
16. The novel aroused much controversy when it was published and was attacked by Meredith Nicholson a
nd by Carolyn Wells in a novel subtitled, The Tale of Warble Petticoat, 1921. The fictional town in this novel is probably based on the real town of Sauk Centre and the story centers on the heroine Carol Kennicott who is bored with the dullness of her lif
e as the wife of a local doctor in Gopher Prairie.  FTP name this novel published in 1920 by Sinclair Lewis.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Main Street}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
17. Born in Vienna, he worked a variety of jobs before coming to the U.S. in 1914. He was an actor and an assistant to D. W. Griffith in such films as }{\f0\ul Birth of a Nation}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Intolerance}{\f0 
, but it is as a writer and director that he became famous. In 1924, he directed his master work, a film adaptation of Frank Norris's novel }{\f0\ul McTeague}{\f0 . FTP name this director most famous for this adaptation, titled }{\f0\ul Greed}{\f0 .

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Erich }{
\f0\ul von Stroheim}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
18. The famous paper reporting the results of this experiment begins: "The investigation reported in this paper was begun as the result of an accident which occurred in this laboratory in April 1925.  At the
 time we were continuing an investigation...of the distribution-in-angle of electrons scattered by a target of ordinary nickel."  FTP identify this classic experiment of electron diffraction that demonstrated experimentally de Broglie's theory that partic
les can also behave as waves.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Davisson-Germer}{\f0  experiment
\par 
\par 19. Consecrated king at age 15, he went through a period of wildness known as the "Gottorp Fury".  While rumors claimed that he would race people to see how fast they could behead sheep, it
 is known that he once forced a captive bear to drink so much wine it jumped out a palace window, killing itself, which was the reason for his never drinking alcohol again.  FTP name this Swedish king who at age 18 successfully beat off the invading Danes
, Polish and Russians armies before losing more than ten years later to Peter the Great at Poltava.
\par Answer: }{\f0\ul Charles XII}{\f0 \page 20. Born in Tientsin, China, to American parents, he lived there until the age of 10, when his family returned to the United States. After graduating from Yale in 1936, he worked as a foreign correspondent for }{
\f0\ul Time}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Life}{\f0  magazines until 1946, when he devoted his career to writing books. One of his first, }{\f0\ul A Bell for Adano}{\f0 , won the Pulitzer Prize in 1945. FTP name this author of }{\f0\ul The Wall}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul 
Hiroshima}{\f0 .
\par \tab \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Hersey}{\f0 
\par 
\par 21. He recently retired his 29 year chairmanship of the Board of Trustees of Science Service, ending a long career as an advocate of science education.  He was also involved in the Westinghouse Science Talent Search, the International Science and Engineer
ing Fair and was a professor and the chancellor of the University of California at Berkeley.  FTP name this chemist who was awarded the 1951 Nobel Prize for his involvement with the creation of many of the transuranium elements.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Glenn T. }{
\f0\ul Seaborg}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 22
. "Early begun", "Further spun", "One day done." they replied when questions by Odin as to the future of Vidar's destiny. And their mother Wyrd added "With joy once more won."  They were probably descended from the giant Norvi and their names were Urd, Ve
rdandi and Skuld. FTP name these sisters who were the Northern goddesses of fate.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Norns}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
23. When she asked Poet Laureate Robert Southey's opinion of her work he replied, "Madame, literature cannot be the business of a woman's life and it ought not 
to be."  Her father cared even less about what she was doing and he shipped her off to Clergy Daughter's College with her sisters, two of whom quickly died of tuberculosis.  However when Dickens and Thackeray began praising her works, he remarked, "[she] 
has written a book and it is a better one than I expected."  FTP name this woman who wrote The Professor, Vilette and Jane Eyre.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Charlotte }{
\f0\ul Bronte}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Introduced by Epaminondas at the battle of Leuctra, it was also successfully used by Alexander the Gre
at at Gaugamela and by Napoleon at Marengo, Austerlitz and Wagram.  In this style of warfare a large force is concentrated and thrown at the weakest point in the enemy line, thus cracking it and routing the enemy in the resulting confusion.  FTP name the 
term given by journalists to describe this plan used to perfection by the Germans in the World War II invasions of Poland and France.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Answer: Blitzkrieg or Lightning Warfare
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Originally trained to be a lawyer at Cambridge, his success with comedies like The
 Sullen Lovers and Epsom-Wells led him to be appointed poet laureate in 1689.  His fame however rests on the work The Medal of John Bayes which attacked John Dryden for being a member of the court party.  Dryden responded by satirizing him as Og in Absalo
m and Achitophel, and as "True-Blue Protestant Poet" in MacFleknoe.  FTP name this English writer.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Answer: Thomas Shadwell
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 replacements: 
\par 
\par During the late 1960's a battle was fought between Naval Sea Systems Command and Admiral Hymen Rickover over the future of nuclear attack submarines.  NAVSEA favored the deep diving Conform design, while Rickover wanted to go with this faster design.  The
 
matter was not decided until the occurrence of the Enterprise incident and Admiral Rickover's decision to name twelve of the boats after the home cities of congressmen who voted for it.  FTP name this predecessor to the Seawolf, the current class of nucle
ar attack submarine, which was named after a city in California, and which is designated the 688.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Answer: Los Angeles class
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
The title of his doctoral dissertation, "The Kinetics of the Reaction Inactivation of Tyrosinase during its Catalysis of the Aerobic
 Oxidation of Catechol", is only slightly more boring than his fictional dissertation "The Endochronic Properties of Resublimated Thiotimiline".  FTP name this American who moved from research to writing with such works as Gold, The Caves of Steel and Nig
htfall.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Isaac Asimov

\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
In humans this disease, which is caused by a prion which alters the proteins produced by the PrP gene, is known as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and results in death after a period of manic dementia.  However, this disease is bett
er known in its bovine form where it has killed 130,000 cows in Great Britain by turning their brains into sponges.  FTP name this disease known by its acronym BSE and the popular term Mad Cow Disease.
\par Answer: Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy      Prompt on: Mad Cow Disease or BSE\page }{\b\f0 1996 ACF Nationals 
\par Questions by Illinois A
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Identify the following European rivers from a description.
\par 1.\tab Named from the Finnish for swamp, this river on whose bank St. Petersburg sits, extends 45 miles from Lake Ladoga to the Gulf of Finland.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Neva}{\f0  River
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 2.\tab 
A dividing line between Roman and Carthaginian territory before the Second Punic War, this longest river found entirely in Spain rises in the Cantabrian Mountains and flows into the Mediterranean at Cape Tortosa.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Ebro}{\f0  River
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 3.\tab 
Rising in Wicklow Country, this river flows about 50 miles and is crossed by the Grand Canal before it flows into the Irish Sea at Dublin.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Liffey}{\f0  River
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. Identify the following possesions associated with Odin for five points each.
\par 1. Odin had two ravens which perched upon his shoulders as he sat upon his throne, name either.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Hugin}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Munin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. On his finger or arm he wore this marvelous ring.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Draupnir}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. He generally carried an infallible spear that was so sacred that an oath sworn upon its point could never be broken.  Name this spear.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Gungnir }{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
4. At his feet crouched two wolves, or hunting hounds, name either.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Geri}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Freki}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
5. He had the highest seat in Asgard, which only he or his wife could sit in and from which he could overlook the entire world.  Name it.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Hlidskialf}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
6. He also was the master of the magnificent hall where there were twelve seats occupied by the gods when they met in council.  Name this hall.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Gladsheim}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. Answer the following questions about blackbody radiation for ten points each.
\par 1. His law states that the wavelength at which the maximum value of power emitted, varies inversely with the temperature.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Wilhelm }{
\f0\ul Wien}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. The calculation of the spectral distribution function for a blackbody based on classical thermodynamics is known as what law.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Rayleigh-Jean's}{\f0  law
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. This law states the total power per unit area radiated by a black-body at a temperature T is proportional to temperature to the 4th power.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Stefan-Boltzmann}{\f0  law
\par 
\par 4. Identify the Russian author from works on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. Ten points.  White Nights and The Double.
\par Five points. The Possessed
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Fyodor }{
\f0\ul Dostoyevsky}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. Ten points. King Hunter and The Pretty Sabine Women.
\par Five points. The Red Laugh.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Leonid }{
\f0\ul Andreyev}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. Ten points. The Song of the Merchant Kalashnikov and The Song of the Czar Ivan Vasilievich Five points.  A Hero of Our Time.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Mikhail }{
\f0\ul Lermontov}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
5. FTP each give the Greek artist responsible for each of the following works of art.
\par 1. Lamnian Athena and Zeus of Olympus.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Phidias}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. The Wounded Niobid and friezes at the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Scopas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. Aprhodite of Cnidus and Hermes and the Infant Dionysus.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Praxiteles}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 \page 
6. FTP a piece identify the following tariffs in American history.
\par 1. This 1930 tariff was th
e opposite of what President Hoover had asked for and was an upward revision due largely to the influence of Senator Grundy.  A petition of approximately 1000 economists urged Hoover to veto the bill, but to avoid interparty fighting he did not.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul Ha
wley-Smoot}{\f0  or Smoot-Hawley Tariff 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. This 1913 tariff was the first substantial reduction tariff since the Civil War and cut rates about 28% below the preceding tariff.  The first income tax after the adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment was a part of this tariff bill.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer:  }{\f0\ul 
Underwood}{\f0  Tariff or Underwood-Simmons Tariff
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. This 1894 tariff slightly reduced the high tariff rates of the 1890 McKinley Tariff and was also notable for containing an income tax provision which was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Wilson-Gorman}{\f0  or Gorman-WilsonTariff
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
7. Identify the following books on a 10/5 basis, with the 10 points clue being the opening line of the book and the 5 point clue the author.
\par 1. "The fourteenth of August was the day fixed upon for the sailing of the brig Pilgrim, on her voyage from Boston, round Cape Horn, to the western coast of North America."
\par Five points.  Richard Henry Dana, Jr.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Two Years Before the Mast}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. "During that third week of May the situation in Baskul had become much worse and, on the 20}{\f0\up6 t}{\f0 h, Air Force machines arrived by arrangement from Peshawar to evacuate the white residents."
\par Five points.  James Hilton
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Lost Horizon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. "George is my name; my deeds have been heard of in Tower Hall, and my childhood has been chronicled in the Journal of Experimental Psychology."
\par Five points.  John Barth
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\ri2880\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{
\f0\ul  Giles Goat-Boy \tab }{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
8. Answer the following questions about European military history for 10 pt. each.
\par 1. Started when Frederick II of Prussia seized Silesia at the accession of Maria Theresa, this war soon merged with the War of Jenkin's Ear and was not ended until the signing of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: War of the }
{\f0\ul Austrian Succession}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2.  Lasting from 1856 to 1860, it started when the Chinese seized a British merchantman and arrested the crew for piracy.  British forces invaded Canton and the war ended when Beijing was threatened by a combined British and French force.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Answer: Arrow War or }{\f0\ul Second Opium War}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. In the early 16th century, Venice seemed to pose a new threat and in response France, the empire, the papacy, and Spain formed what league in 1508?
\par \tab \tab Answer: League of }{\f0\ul Cambrai}{\f0 
\par 
\par 9.  Given a brief description of an organic chemical compound, identify its }{\f0\ul common}{\f0 
 name for the stated number of points. Hint: all of the compounds in this question are aromatic compounds. [Note to moderator: instead of using chemical formula notation, each chemical formula is written below as it would be read out loud.]
\par 1. 5 pts: this compound with formula C-seven-H-eight consists of a benzene ring with one methyl group; it is also known as methylbenzene.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Toluene}{\f0 
\par 2. 5 pts: this compound with formula C-six-H-five-O-H consists of a benzene ring with one OH group; it used to be commonly known as carbolic.\tab \tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Phenol}{\f0 
\par 3. 10 pts: this compound with formula C-eight-H-ten consists of a benzene ring with two methyl groups, and appears in 3 different isomers, ortho-, meta-, and para-.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Xylene}{\f0 
\par 4. 10 pts: this compound with formula C-six-H-five-N-H-two consists of a benzene ring with an amine group. It was first obtained by destructive distillation of indigo, and it is commonly used today in dye making, among other uses.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Aniline}{\f0 
\par \page 10. Identify the following English dramatists on 10/5 basis.
\par 1. Ten points.  He participated in the War of the Theaters against Thomas Dekker and John Marston with such plays as Cynthia's Revels and Poetaster.
\par Five points.  He is better known for his later plays such as Sejanus His Fall, The Devil Is an Ass and Volpone.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Ben }{
\f0\ul Jonson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. Ten points.  Thought possibly to have had a hand in the writing of Shakespeare's plays Titus Andronicus and Richard III, he is known to have written the play Edward II and the unfinished poem Hero and Leander.
\par Five points.  His dramas are characterized by having a single character whose force of personality gives the work unity such as Barabas in The Jew of Malta and Faustus in The Tragical History of Dr. Faustus.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Christopher 
}{\f0\ul Marlowe}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. Ten points.  Poet laureate from 1715 to 1718, he wrote such works as Jane Shore, Tamerlane and Lady Jane Grey.
\par Five points.  He is probably best known for the character of the gay Lothario who appeared in The Fair Penitent.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Nicholas }{
\f0\ul Rowe}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
11. In 1959, Alfred Hitchcock directed one of his most famous movies, }{\f0\ul North by Northwest}{\f0 . For 10 points each, answer these questions about this film.
\par 1. Name the lead actress who played Eve Kendall.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Eva }{\f0\ul Marie Saint}{\f0 
\par 2. Name the actor who played the villain Phillip Vandamm.
\par \tab \tab Answer: James }{\f0\ul Mason}{\f0 
\par 3. }{\f0\ul North by Northwest}{\f0 , along with several other Hitchcock movies such as The 39 Steps, Vertigo, and The Birds are spoofed in which 1977 Mel Brooks film starring himself and Madeline Kahn?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul High Anxiety}{\f0 
\par 
\par 12. For memorable events in American history, there's nothing quite like a good scandal. Answer these questions about a rather infamous one for ten points each.
\par 1. This construction and finance company associated with the building of the Union Pacific railroad was part of a complex arrangement where a few men gave themselves contracts for constructing the railroad, rea
ping enormous profits in the process but impoverishing the railroad. FTP name it.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Credit Mobilier}{\f0  of America
\par 2. This congressman from Massachusetts, with his brother Oliver and railroad executive T.C. Durant formed Credit Mobilier. For his actions with Credit Mobilier, he was subjected to Senate investigation and censured in 1872.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Oakes }{\f0\ul Ames}{\f0 
\par 3. This Vice President under Grant was implicated for corrupt transactions with Credit Mobilier. However, he was absolved of any wrongdoing in the scandal.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Schuyler }{\f0\ul Colfax}{\f0 
\par 
\par 13. Identify the following persons or terms from mathematics on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1. 10 pts: This language's name is applied to an n-by-n grid containing only the numbers one through n such that each number appears exactly once in each row and column.
\par 5 pts: Its modern descendents include Spanish, Italian and French.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Latin}{\f0  (square)
\par 2. 10 pts: His name is applied to a path which starts at one vertex and traces every edge in the graph exactly once, finally returning to its initial vertex.
\par 5 pts: His number is the base of the natural logarithm.\tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Leonard }{\f0\ul Euler}{\f0 
\par 3. 10 pts: The circuit named for this man is similar to an Eulerian circuit, except it starts at one vertex and travels to every other vertex without repetition, finally ending at its initial vertex.
\par 5 pts: He is famous for developing quarternions.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Sir William Rowan }{\f0\ul Hamilton}{\f0 
\par \page 14. Answer the following about Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's tales about Sherlock Holmes.
\par 1. Five points.  Name the novel in which Holmes and Watson are first introduced to each other which sees Jefferson Hope kill Enoch Drebber and Joseph Strangerson.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
A Study in Scarlet}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. For five points each name the two Scotland Yard detectives whom Holmes calls "the pick of a bad lot" and to whom he often lends his assistance.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Tobias }{
\f0\ul Gregson}{\f0  and Inspector }{\f0\ul Lestrade}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 3. Ten points.  Name the
 story which begins "It is with a heavy heart that I take up my pen to write these the last words in which I shall ever record the singular gifts by which my friend Mr. Sherlock Holmes was distinguished." 
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: The }{
\f0\ul Final Problem}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
4. For a final five points name the archcriminal who supposedly dies along with Holmes in The Final Problem.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Professor }{
\f0\ul Moriarty}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
15. Identify the following psychologists from a description.
\par 1. For five points name the Swiss psychiatrist who developed the inkblot technique.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Hermann }{
\f0\ul Rorchach}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. FTP name the first American psychologist to study instrumental learning, who was famous for his puzzle box experiments.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: E. L. }{
\f0\ul Thorndike}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. For 15 points name the first person in the United States to earn a Ph.D. in psychology, who was also the founder of the American Psychological Association.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: G. Stanley }
{\f0\ul Hall}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
16. Identify the following African empires from a brief description for 10 points each.
\par 1. This empire was one of the earliest civilizations to emerge in Sudan.  From its largest city, Kumbi, it was able to effectively rule Western Africa from about 300 to 1200 A.D.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Empire of }{
\f0\ul Ghana}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. This empire became the dominate empire in Western Africa in the 1300's and was ruled at its height by Mansa Musa.  It was the second largest empire in the world at its time, eclipsed only by the Mongols.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Empire of }{
\f0\ul Mali}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. This empire came to dominate western Africa in the 1400's when in a series of great wars it was able to defeat the Empire of Mali.  The largest of all the Western African empires, it was ruled by Sunni Ali until Astia Muhammad took over.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Empire of }{
\f0\ul Songhai}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
17. Identify these characters from Mozart's }{\f0\ul Don Giovanni}{\f0  for ten points apiece.
\par 1. Don Giovanni's sidekick, always standing lookout during his master's assignations.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Leporello}{\f0 
\par 2. The spurned woman who was promised marriage by Giovanni, abandoned after three days, and has been tracking him all over Europe, only to be told by Leporello in a famous scene exactly how many women the Don has had.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Dona }{\f0\ul Elvira}{\f0 
\par 3. The peasant whose wedding plans are disrupted when Giovanni puts the moves on his intended, and who then puts up with her waffling back and forth between the two of them.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Masetto}{\f0 
\par 
\par 18. Answer the following questions about vitamins for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For five points what man discovered vitamins in 1911.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Casimir }{
\f0\ul Funk}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. For five points what is the scientific name of the vitamin B1.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Thiamin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. FTP what is the scientific name of the vitamin B12.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Cyanocobalamine}{\f0  prompt for more on cobalamin
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
4. FTP what is the scientific name for vitamin E.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Tocopherol}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 \page 
19. FTP each identify the philosopher from a brief descriptions.
\par 1. Born in 1905 he is best known and remembered for his work in the theory of explanation and theory of conformation, his major papers are collected in Aspects of Scientific Explanation.  He developed a nomological deductive model of scientific exp
lanation.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Carl }{
\f0\ul Hempel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. Born in Bukhara, this Persian philosopher's Arabic name was Ibn Sina.  His reputation as a philosopher was so great that in the Islamic world he was called the "Third Aristotle".  He wrote a comprehensive system of philosop
hy that was primarily Aristotelian in nature.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Avicenna}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. This pre-socratic philosopher lived at Elea in Italy and in his poem The Way of Truth argued the following: that which is thought must have being, for that which is not cannot be thought; be
ing is changeless, for change requires not being; and being is one, for multiplicity requires not-being. His most famous student was Zeno of Elea.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Parmenides}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
20. For the stated number of points identify the authors of the following ancient works of literature.
\par 1. 5 pts: Works and Days.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Hesiod}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. 5 pts: On the Nature of Things.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Lucretius}{\f0  or Titus Lucretius Carus
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 3. 10 pts: The Satyricon

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Gaius }{
\f0\ul Petronius}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 4. 10 pts: Thyestes.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Answer: Lucius Annaeus }{\f0\ul Seneca}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
21. Answer the following about the Magna Carta for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 pts: For five points, all or nothing, name the English monarch who issued the Magna Carta, and the year it was done.  \tab \tab Answer:  King }{\f0\ul John}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul 1215}{\f0 
\par 2.  5 pts: name the location near the Thames, in Surrey, where the document was drafted and sealed by John.  
\par \tab \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Runnymede}{\f0 
\par 3.  10 pts: The barons had collected to demand the charter under the influence of the Archbishop of Canterbury, who was upset at the heavy taxation imposed on the church during John's quarrels with Pope Innocent III.  FTP name the Archbishop.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Stephen }{\f0\ul Langton}{\f0 
\par 4.  10 pts: The first draft of the charter was read in 1213 to a group of nobles and clergy at this abbey, where they had gathered a large force to intimidate the King.  FTP name this abbey, also site of two battles during the Wars of the Roses.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul St. Albans}{\f0 
\par 
\par 22. Identify the following incidents of rape in Greek mythology.
\par 1. After the defeat of Troy, Ajax the Lesser found this daughter of Priam and prophetess who was fated not to be believed hiding on a shrine of Athena.  Ajax raped her and was then destroyed by the goddess for defiling the shrine.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Cassandra}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. After she bore her brother Zeus a child, Poseidon decided he desired her but she refused him.  After a short chase, he caught and raped her and she bore him Arion, the swiftest horse in mythology.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Demeter}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
3. When his wife Procne became homesick, Tereus traveled to Athens and brought this sister of Procne for a 
visit.  While traveling he raped her and then cut out her tongue so she could not tell.  When Procne found out what happened she tried to kill her husband but the gods changed her into a nightingale, Tereus into a hawk and the sister into a swallow.

\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: }{\f0\ul 
Philomela}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
23. Without using spectrographic methods, an organic chemist was able to determine the structure of the eight aldohexoses, or six-carbon atom D-sugars, whose presence pervades all of life, appearing in such compounds as starch, cellulose, sucr
ose and glycogen.
\par 1. FTP name this German chemist who was awarded the 1902 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 Answer: Emil }{
\f0\ul Fischer}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
2. Five points for two, ten for four, fifteen for six and 20 points for all eight, name these important sugars.
\par }\pard \qj\li1296\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\adjustright {\f0 
Answer: Glucose, Galactose, Allose, Altrose, Talose, Mannose, Gulose + Idose
\par }}