{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min54}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min54}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages11}{\nofwords4029}{\nofchars22968}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws28206}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000004600}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by Chicago A
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. The first one was custom-built for a man named William Kemmler and was designed by Thomas Edison, who hoped that the public would be scared into believing that a certain invention by George Westinghouse was a threat to human safety.  However, the stunt
 backfired, since it took so long to kill Kemmler that the safety of the AC circuit was proved once and for all.  FTP, name this once-popular execution device.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Electric Chair}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. For an acoustic wave, it's the adiabatic bulk modulus divided b
y the speed of the wave.  For an electric circuit, it's a complex number with real part equal to the resistance and imaginary part equal to the reactance.  FTP, name this quantity, whose name comes from a Latin word meaning 'entangle,' often denoted in eq
uations as Z.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Impedance}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. Like many deranged persons, he was a former postal employee, who started out in the Dead Letter division of the Washington post office.  Some years later, he turned up on Wall Street, where he took a job in a law offic
e, but he was dismissed after refusing to do any work or even go home, and he died in prison after being arrested for vagrancy.  FTP, name this hapless title character of a Herman Melville short story.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Bartleby}{\f0  the Scrivener
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. The first produc
tion was interrupted by Napoleon's capture of Vienna, and closed after just three performances.  After heavy revisions, the second production opened in 1806, but was withdrawn because of a dispute between the composer and his producers.  At last, it becam
e a hit in is 1814 version, although some claim the performances were ruined when the composer insisted on conducting in spite of his deafness.  FTP, name this only opera by Beethoven.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Fidelio}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. His school, known as the 'Garden,' was built righ
t next door to Plato's Academy.  His main intellectual opponent, however, was not Plato but Aristotle, whose dogmas he challenged with ideas such as the 'swerve' theory of free will, an early theory of animal evolution, and a pleasure-based ideal of the g
ood life.  FTP, name this Greek philosopher whose ideas are known to us mostly through Lucretius' }{\f0\ul On the Nature of Things}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Epicurus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. Owen Wilson's 36 in 1912 is still the single-season record.  Sam Crawford holds the lifetime record with 312, 
but no active major-leaguer is currently in the all-time top fifty.  However, Lance Johnson may eventually change this, as he has already led the league in this category five times. FTP, what is this type of extra-base hit, considered baseball's most exci
ting play?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Triple}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Three-base}{\f0  hit
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7. In 1456, or so the story goes, Pope Calixtus III ordered it to stay away from Europe, and when it ignored the edict, it was excommunicated.  FTP, what is this object, first observed by Chinese astronomers i
n 240 B.C., which is next expected to visit the earth in the year 2061?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Halley's Comet}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. The first founded of the Order of the Yellow Hats.  The sixth was a popular poet of light verse.  The third converted the Mongols to Buddhism, while the f
ifth, known as 'The Great,' was the first to establish temporal power over Tibet.  FTP, these are among the holders of what office, whose fourteenth occupant won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Dalai Lama}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. The tomb of Queen Christina of Sweden.  The Tower of the Winds and the Scala Regia. The Belvedere Palace and the Borgia Apartments; The Laocoon, Raphael's School of Athens, and Michaelangelo's Last Judgment, but not, as a persistent rumor would have it
, the world's largest collection of pornography.  FTP, name the city within Rome where all these treasures might be found.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Vatican}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. Possibly the worst one of all is, quote, 'The celebrated name which forms the title to this work will suff
iciently apprise the reader that it is in the earlier half of the fourteenth century that my story opens,' while a close runner-up is '`Ho, Diomed, well met! Do you sup with Glaucus to-night?''  FTP, name the novelist of these bad opening lines, as well a
s the comparatively respectable 'It was a dark and stormy night.' 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Edward }{\f0\ul Bulwer-Lytton}{\f0  (prompt on an early 'Rienzi')
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 11. They took their name from a Dominican monastery in Paris, and originally were led by the moderate Mirabeau, but quickly becam
e radicalized as a result of their struggle with the Feuillants. FTP, name this political group founded in 1789, which eventuallysplit into Girondist and Mountain factions.
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Jacobins}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12. The last death was an Englishman in 1978 who had been i
nfected by an escaped lab sample.  The last person infected was a Somali one year later, who was cured, and by 1980 the World Health Organization declared it extinct in nature.  FTP, name this virus, which today exists only in two laboratories in Atlanta 
and Moscow.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Smallpox}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. William Godwin blamed him for converting hundreds of liberals into reactionaries.  He reluctantly advocated slavery, infanticide, and even smallpox, and condemned soup-kitchens and unemployment-relief, a philosophy that 
led Thomas Carlyle to dub economics 'the dismal science.'  FTP, name this English clergyman, author of a 1798 }{\f0\ul Essay on the Principle of Population}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f0\ul Malthus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. He's not a scientist, but in 1993, he became an honorary professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  Born in 1947, he moved to England in 1961, and won the Booker Prize for his second novel, }{\f0\ul Midnight's Children}{\f0 
.  FTP, name this author of }{\f0\ul The Moor's Last Sigh}{\f0 , whose most controversial work is }{\f0\ul The Satanic Verses}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Salman }{\f0\ul Rushdie}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Originally, he was the consort of the fire-goddess Lua, a god of grain and agriculture whose major festival was celebrated after the end of winter planting, around December 25.  His festival continued to be celebrated even after he 
himself lost importance, and indirectly, it has continued even today.  FTP, name this early Roman god, whose identity later merged with the Greek god Cronus.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Saturn}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. An absorbent sheet is suspended in the solvent, causing the liquid to rise 
by capillary action, carrying the dissolved particles with it.  The sheet is removed, dried, and placed under an ultraviolet lamp, and the distance travelled by each line of components is observed, from which it is possible to identify them.  FTP, what co
mmon lab technique has just been described?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Paper }{\f0\ul chromatography}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-6336\li6336\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
17. Franklin Roosevelt called it Shangri-La, and Lyndon Johnson had it renamed 'Number Four' for security reasons, but the name that has stuck was given by Dwight Eisenhower, who nam
ed it after his grandson.  FTP, identify this place in Maryland, the site of a 1978 Israeli-Egyptian peace accord.  Answer: }{\f0\ul Camp David}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. In architecture, it refers to a style in which references, often punning, are made to historical elements and styles, as in the work of Frank Gehry and Michael Graves.  Many consider its zenith to be the AT&T headquarters, Philip Johnson's Chippendale
-topped skyscraper in New York.  FTP, what is this style prominent in the last two decades?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Postmodernism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19. Will, the narrator, falls asleep in the Malvern Hills, has a vision of a field full of folk, and dreams that he has set off in a quest 
for the title character, who is either Christ, the Church, England, or just an ordinary farmer.  FTP, this is the plot of what alliterative fourteenth-century poem, attributed to William Langland?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Piers Plowman}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. He began his political career
 as a member of the Anti-Masonic party, a group dedicated to the destruction of all secret societies, but ended it as presidential candidate for the American Party, the political front of the clandestine Know-Nothings.  FTP, name this thirteenth president
 of the United States and vice president of Zachary Taylor.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Millard }{\f0\ul Fillmore}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-5616\li5616\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
21. He was so shy around women that he had to communicate with his female servants exclusively through writing, and so uncomfortable around his fellow scientists that he 
built his library four miles away from his house'just so that people wishing to use it would not bother to ask him for permission.  FTP, name this eccentric English scientist and pioneer of electricity, the namesake of Cambridge's Physics Laboratory.  

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Henry }{\f0\ul Cavendish}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 
22. It begins with the creation and the five ages of man, and ends with the reign of Augustus.  In between is the story of Pyramus and Thisbe, the story of Baucis and Philemon, the transformation of Lichas, the transformation of Act
aeus, the transformation of Tiresias, and about 140 other tales.  FTP, name this poem, a collection of classical mythology by Ovid. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Metamorphoses}{\f0 
\par 
\par 23. This piece is a 1937 orchestration of the slow movement of the composer's string quartet, and a later choral arrangement is called }{\f0\ul Agnus Dei}{\f0 
.  Scored for a string orchestra, this slow, meditative piece is often played at funerals of American presidents and was featured in the movie }{\f0\ul Platoon}{\f0 .  FTP, name this most famous composition of Samuel Barber.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Adagio for Strings}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24. As a philosopher, his most important works are 'Concerning Genera and Species,' which deals with logic and dialectic, and 'Know Thyself,' an ethical treatise.  His best-selling book, however, is the autobiographical 'Hist
ory of My Calamities,' which tells of how his brother-in-law broke into his room one night and made him a eunuch.  FTP, name this castrated 12th-century French theologian and lover of Heloise.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Peter }{\f0\ul Abelard}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 25. One of the 
ancient pillars of Hercules delimiting the known world to Europeans, it was the site of John and Yoko's 1969 wedding.  Ceded after the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713, it's the last British colony on mainland Europe.  Its flag is based on city arms presented by
 Ferdinand and Isabella and symbolizes its importance as the gateway to the Mediterranean.  FTP, name this 2-square mile colony.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Gibraltar}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par First celebrated in Seville in 1482, it consisted of a parade, a solemn mass, an oath of loyalty to the ch
urch, a sermon, and a reading of punishments, after which the prisoners would be turned over to the state.  However, it never included the actual executions, which were carried out later by the secular government. FTP, name this judicial and religious cer
emony of the Spanish
\par Inquisition, whose name means 'Act of Faith.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Auto-da-Fe}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par Article 1 begins, 'You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive it in any medium.' Article 3 states that a user may copy and d
istribute the Program in object code or executable form provided that he also makes readily available the complete corresponding machine-readable source code. 
\par FTP, name this document, released by the Free Software Foundation,designed to ensure that users of the software it protects willremain free to modify and distribute the software and its derivatives.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul GNU}{\f0  General Public }{\f0\ul License}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par The entries for October deal with the hero's hopeless romantic fantasies, and in November, it describes how the loca
l dogs have been making fun of him. On '2000 A.D. April 43,' the hero discovers that he is actually King Ferdinand VIII of Spain, and by the last entry, on February 34, he has been hauled off to an insane asylum by men whom he mistakes for the Spanish Inq
uisition.  FTP, name this short story by Nikolai Gogol.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Notes of a Madman}{\f0  (accept: }{\f0\ul Zapiski Sumaschedshevo}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Diary of a Madman}{\f0 , or other reasonable equivalent translations)

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par In Spain, they were called Flamencos, or Flemings.  In France, they were c
alled Bohemians, and in England, they were called Egyptians, from which one of their modern names derives.  FTP, name this racial group, actually from India, which wandered into Europe in the early sixteenth century.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Romany}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Gypsies}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par Take an i
nfinite list of real numbers.  Consider the number whose nth decimal place is one greater than the nth decimal place of the nth number on the list.  Such a number is, by construction, not on the list: QED. FTP, this describes what famous proof used by Geo
rg Cantor to show that the set of real numbers in uncountably infinite.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Diagonal}{\f0  proof
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Chicago A}{\f0 
\par 
\par 1. Identify the actor, 30-20-10.
\par 1. Born in 1936, his big break came with a role in Broadway's 'The Owl and the Pussycat,' and his first starring movie role was 1969's 'Jenny,' in which he played the draft-dodging, wife-beating husband of Marlo Thomas.
\par 2. In recent years, he has made frequent appearances in Woody Allen movies, including 'Crimes and Misdemeanors,' 'Everyone Says I Love You,' and 'Manhattan Murder Mystery.'  Other films since 1983 include 'Betsy's Wedding' and 'Sweet Liberty.'
\par 3. He is best known for the eleven years he spent as Hawkeye Pierce on TV's 'M*A*S*H.' 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Alan }{\f0\ul Alda}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. For the stated number of points, given a famous dam, name the river on which it is or will be built.
\par 1. For five: the Hoover Dam
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul Colorado}{\f0  River
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For ten: the Three Gorges Dam
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul Yangtze}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Chang Jiang}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For fifteen: the Cahora Bassa
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul Zambezi}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. Write down the following list of unnatural activities: cannibalism, incest, necrophilia, bestiality, gerbil-stuffing.  Now, given a classic reading-list work of literature, identify the vice from th
e above list which is central to that work's plot.  Five points each, with a five-point bonus for all correct.
\par 1. Shakespeare's }{\f0\ul Titus Andronicus}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Cannibalism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Faulkner's }{\f0\ul The Hamlet}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Bestiality}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Faulkner's }{\f0\ul A Rose for Emily}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Necrophilia}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. Nabokov's }{\f0\ul Ada}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Incest}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. Ford's }{\f0\ul 'Tis Pity She's a Whore}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Incest}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. For ten points each, identify these notorious death camps of Nazi Europe.
\par 1. The first of Hitler's concentration camps, it opened in March, 1933.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Dachau}{\f0 
\par 2. It was the largest and bloodiest camp of Nazi Europe, with a death toll of over 3 million prisoners in just six years.  Answer: }{\f0\ul Auschwitz}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This was the camp where Anne Frank died.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Bergen-Belsen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. Given two animals, given the smallest level of classification that is shared by the two, and the name of that level.  For example, if I said humans and chimps, you'd say 'order primates,' and if I said slugs and octopuses you'd say 'phylum mollusca.'  
Ten points each, and both halves of each answer must be correct to receive points.
\par 1. Elephants and Donkeys
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Class Mammalia}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Devil Rays and Marlins
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Phylum Chordata}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Subphylum Vertebrata}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Tapeworms and Janet Reno
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kingdom Animalia}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. Identify the poem from lines, 30-20-10.
\par 1. 'An orphan's curse would drag to hell/ A spirit from on high;/ But oh! more horrible than that/ Is the curse in a dead man's eye!'
\par 2. 'He prayeth best, who loveth best/ All things both great and small;/ For the dear God who loveth us,/ He made and loveth all.'
\par 3. 'Water, water everywhere,/ And all the boards did shrink;/ Water, water everywhere,/ Nor any drop to drink.' 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Rime of the Ancient Mariner}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 7. Identify the composer, given a short description of his death, for ten points, or from a second clue for five.
\par 1. 10 pts: An insect sting at the base of his spine led to an abscess, blood poisoning, and death soon after he completed his only violin concerto.
\par 5 pts: His operas include }{\f0\ul Lulu}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Wozzeck}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Alban }{\f0\ul Berg}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: Sadly, his plans to complete his }{\f0\ul Mystery}{\f0 
 in which music, dance, colors, and scents would produce a mystical ecstasy in its participants fell short when he developed a carbuncle on his lip and eventually blood poisoning.
\par 5 pts: Among this Russian piano virtuoso's other works are }{\f0\ul Prometheus}{\f0  and a series of experimental keyboard Preludes.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Alexander }{\f0\ul Scriabin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10 pts: A probable schizophrenic, he tried to kill himself by throwing himself into the Rhine in 1854, but was pulled out and sent to a lunatic asylum near Bonn, where he died two years later.
\par 5 pts: This composer of a }{\f0\ul Rhenish Symphony}{\f0  was married to the
\par former Clara Wieck.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Robert }{\f0\ul Schumann}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. For the stated number of points, answer these questions about Dr. Hannibal Lecter's favorite internal organ, the pancreas.
\par 1. For five points each, name the two other organs that the pancreas is linked to; one is a collection of lymphoid tissues, the other is a part of the small intestine.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Spleen}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Duodenum}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For ten: name the cell groups found within the pancreas which function as an endocrine gland and produce the hormone insulin.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Islets of }{\f0\ul Langerhans}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. The pancreas' main function is to release digestive enzymes, which it does whenever it receives a certain hormone.  For a final ten points, name this hormone, which is produced in the duodenum.  

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Secritin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about our nation's first Constitutional crisis, the presidential election of 1800.
\par 1. First, for five, name the running mate of Thomas Jefferson, who tried to take an advantage of a quirk in the Constitution to steal the presidency for himself.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Aaron }{\f0\ul Burr}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. In response to Burr's machinations, the nation adopted a new constitutional amendment to simplify the presidential election process.  For ten points, name it.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Twelfth}{\f0  amendment
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Burr's misbehavior has assured that he would be far better-remembered than his counterpart, the Federalist running mate of John Adams.  For a final fifteen points, name this South Carolinian.  

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Charles }{\f0\ul Pinckney}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. Identify these 19th century thinkers who attempted to rationalize the existence of Christianity and life of Christ, fifteen points each.
\par 1. An influence on Marx, his most well-known work, }{\f0\ul The Essence of Christianity}{\f0 , argues that God is a projection of man's nature corresponding to its human needs.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Ludwig }{\f0\ul Feuerbach}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. In }{\f0\ul The Life of Jesus Critically Examined}{\f0 , he denied the historical truth of the Gospels and described the development of Christianity through Hegelian dialectic.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: David Friedrich }{\f0\ul Strauss}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. For ten points each, identify the Chinese dynasty that presided over the following events.
\par 1. Gunpowder and movable type are invented.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sung}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Confucius and Lao Tzu are born.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Zhou}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Chou}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Beijing, then known as Cambaluc, becomes capital of all China for the first time.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Yuan}{\f0  (prompt on Mongol)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12. For ten points each, identify the following terms from abstract algebra:
\par 1. It is a commutative ring with a multiplicative identity and no zero divisors.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul integral domain}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. A group in which the operation is commutative.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul abelian}{\f0  group
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. An integral domain in which a division algorithm exists.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul euclidean domain}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. For ten points each, identify these kings named Haakon.
\par }\pard \fi-2016\li2016\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 1. Born Prince Carl of Denmark, in 1905 he was elected king of Norway when that country gained independence from Sweden.  Answer: }{\f0\ul Haakon VII}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. One of the first Christian kings of Norway, his struggle against his pagan half-brother Eric Bloodaxe was the subject of a late Norse saga.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Haakon I}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Haakon the Good}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This thirteenth-century king brought Norway to its greatest territorial extent when he annexed Iceland and Greenland, but he was killed in an unsuccessful attempt to add Scotland to his empire.  

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Haakon IV}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Haakon the Old}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. For the stated number of points, identify the psychologists associated with the following theories of human personality.
\par 1. For five: he argued that children's personalities passed through five stages of psychosexual development: oral, anal, phallic, latent, and genital.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sigmund }{\f0\ul Freud}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For ten: arguing that all personality is based on need, he developed a hierarchy of motivation which peaks at self-actualization.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Abraham }{\f0\ul Maslow}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This 20th-century neo-phrenologist argued that personality was determined by one's somatotype, or body shape; for example, tall skinny people with big heads are bookish and introverted.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: William H. }{\f0\ul Sheldon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. This bonus will test your knowledge of those wild Hardy boys. For ten points each, identify these Hardy characters, given their life stories.  
\par 1. He deserts his wife, Arabella, and takes up with Sue Bridehead. After his son by Arabella kills all of his children by Sue, he goes back to Arabella.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Jude}{\f0  Fawley
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. He gets drunk, sells his wife and child to a sailor, then sobers up, and becomes a respectable politician.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Michael }{\f0\ul Henchard}{\f0  or the }{\f0\ul Mayor of Casterbridge}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. He retires to Egdon Heath to open a school and marries Eustacia Vye, who dies of an adder-bite.  Then he goes blind and becomes an itinerant preacher.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Clym }{\f0\ul Yeobright}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. For the stated number of points, identify these justices who served on the United States Supreme Court during the tenure of Chief Justice Melville Fuller.
\par 1. For five: the author of a landmark treatise on the common law, this Boston Brahmin is best remembered for his dissents, particularly that in }{\f0\ul Lochner v. New York}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Oliver Wendell }{\f0\ul Holmes}{\f0 , Jr.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For ten: The grandfather of a Warren Court justice of the same name, he wrote a famous dissenting opinion in }{\f0\ul Plessy v. Ferguson}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: John Marshall }{\f0\ul Harlan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For fifteen: the immediate predecessor of Holmes on both the Massachusetts and United States Supreme Courts, he introduced the now-universal practi
ce of hiring recent law graduates as judicial clerks.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Horace }{\f0\ul Gray}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. Identify the common name, 30-15.
\par 1. It was the name of the grandson and successor of Hillel, a noted rabbi whose students included the future apostle Paul.  He makes a brief 
appearance in the New Testament, where he urges the Sanhedrin not to take action against Christ's surviving apostles.
\par 2. It was the unusual middle name of U.S. President Warren G.
\par Harding.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Gamaliel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 18. For ten points each, identify these concepts from the theory of relativity.
\par 1. The name for the transformation relating an event in one reference frame to the same event as seen in a different inertial frame.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Lorentz}{\f0  transformation
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This word describes the space-time interval between two events that can be seen by some observer as occurring at the same time.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul space-like}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For five each: these two words describe the two different kinds of four-vectors that differ in the sign of he zeroth component.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul covariant}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul contravariant}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19. Identify the person, 30-20-10.
\par 1. He fled Germany in 1933, allegedly because Hitler interpreted his }{\f0\ul The Last Will of Dr. Mabuse}{\f0  as a personal insult.
\par 2. He was the original choice to direct the silent classic }{\f0\ul The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari}{\f0 , but was forced to turn the job down so he could film a sequel to his }{\f0\ul Spiders}{\f0 .
\par 3. This German-American director is best known for }{\f0\ul M}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Big Heat}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Metropolis}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Fritz }{\f0\ul Lang}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. For the stated number of points, identify these twentieth-century Italian writers from works.
\par 1. For five: }{\f0\ul The Island of the Day Before}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Foucault's Pendulum}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Umberto }{\f0\ul Eco}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For ten: }{\f0\ul The Child of Pleasure}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Flame of Life}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Gabriele }{\f0\ul D'Annunzio}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For fifteen: }{\f0\ul The Mill on the Po}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Son of Stalin}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Riccardo }{\f0\ul Bachelli}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. For the stated number of points, identify these peninsulas, given the bodies of water that surround them.
\par 1. For five: the Gulfs of Aqaba and Suez, and the Mediterranean Sea.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sinai}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For ten: The Gulf of Carpentaria and the Coral Sea.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Cape York}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For fifteen: Norton Sound and Kotzebue Sound.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Seward}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. For fifteen points each, identify these short-lived peace treaties of the Napoleonic period.
\par 1. Negotiated by Napoleon, this 1797 peace gave France control of Belgium and gave Austria control of Venice.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f0\ul Campo-Formio}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Following losses to Napoleon at Eylau and Friedland, the Russians agreed to switch sides in this 1807 treaty.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f0\ul Tilsit}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. Given a pair of researchers, name the discovery for which they were awarded the Nobel Prize.  Ten points each.
\par 1. James Watson and Francis Crick
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: double-helix }{\f0\ul structure}{\f0  of }{\f0\ul DNA}{\f0  (accept reasonable equivalents, but the answer must indicate that th
ey discovered the double helix, not DNA itself)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul cosmic}{\f0  microwave background }{\f0\ul radiation}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Sherry Rowland and Mario Molina
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul ozone depletion}{\f0  by CFC's (accept reasonable equivalents)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24. Identify the essayists, ten points each.
\par 1. Her book }{\f0\ul Crazy Salad}{\f0  contains such essays as 'A Few Words About Breasts,' and 'On Never Having Been a Prom Queen.' She may be better known as a screenwriter and film director.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Nora }{\f0\ul Ephron}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The longtime senior fiction editor of the }{\f0\ul New Yorker}{\f0 , his essays on baseball have been collected in }{\f0\ul The Summer Game}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Five Seasons}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul 
Late Innings}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Roger }{\f0\ul Angell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Classic essays by this writer include 'Why I Write' and 'Politics and the English Language.' 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul Orwell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 25. For ten points each, identify these similar terms from biology.
\par 1. This principle is essentially the negation of the spontaneous generation of life theory; it states that living organisms can arise only from other living organisms.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Biogenesis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This is the development of an organism from an unfertilized egg; it is found mostly among plants, but also among a few species of aphid.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Parthenogenesis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This is the term for sexual reproduction by larval or pre-adult animals.  It is most frequently observed among axolotl salamanders.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Paedogenesis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 26. Identify the word, 30-20-10.
\par 1. The term itself was coined in the eighteenth-century by Johann Heinrich Lambert, and the modern movement of the same name was founded by Franz Brentano in 1874. 
\par 2. The study of consciousness and intentionality, this branch of philosophy is today most closely associated with Edmund Husserl.
\par 3. This thirteen-letter word precedes 'of the Spirit' in the title of a famous work by Hegel.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Phenomenology}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 27. Identify the authors.  Fifteen points if you can get them from the name of a work, ten if you need a second clue about them.
\par 1. (15 point clue) }{\f0\ul A House for Mr. Biswas}{\f0  (10 point clue) Born in Trinidad of Indo-Asian descent, he is a perennial front-runner for the Nobel Prize for Literature.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: V.S. }{\f0\ul Naipual}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. (15 point clue) }{\f0\ul The Great Weaver from Kashmir}{\f0  (10 point clue) As of early 1997, this Icelandic novelist is the oldest living winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Halldor }{\f0\ul Laxness}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 28. In 1830, America entered the age of railroads.  For fifteen points each, answer the following questions about railroading events of that year.
\par 1. In August, Peter Cooper unveiled this prototype locomotive, the first ever built in America.  In September, it lost a much-publicized race to a horse.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Tom Thumb}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. In November, this locomotive began carrying passengers between Charleston and Hamburg, South Carolina.  It was the first American locomotive to go into actual service.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Best Friend of Charleston}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 29. Under the AGIL paradigm of sociology, there are four basic classes of functions which every human society must carry out.  For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about this theory.
\par 1. First, for ten, name the Harvard structuralist who developed the AGIL paradigm.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Talcott }{\f0\ul Parsons}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Second, for five each, what four classes of functions do the A, G, I and L of AGIL stand for?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Adaption}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Goal}{\f0  attainment, }{\f0\ul Integration}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Latency}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 30. For ten points each, given some operas, identify the composers, all of whom are much better known for their non-operatic works.
\par 1. 'Rusalka' (1901)
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Antonin }{\f0\ul Dvorak}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 'Moses and Aaron' (1951)
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arnold }{\f0\ul Schoenberg}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 'The Child and the Enchantments' (1925) 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Maurice }{\f0\ul Ravel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par }}