{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min54}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min54}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords4155}{\nofchars23689}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws29091}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000000a00}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by Chicago LCY
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  After being apprenticed as an ironmonger, he acquired a small shop of his own.  However, he spent the days after th
e Civil Wars writing, editing, and reading.  His unpretentious treatise, of which he did not even claim authorship on its first appearance, has become a household term.  As a biographer to his fishing partners John Donne and George Herbert, he exhibited a
 style which bubbles forth with an enthusiasm for innocent outdoor recreation.  FTP, name this creator of Piscator, a man of tranquil and contented temper, the central figure of  }{\f0\ul The Compleat Angler}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Isaak }{\f0\ul Walton}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. Probably most admired for his 
church compositions, which ranged from small cantatas to large-scale works from soloists, a chorus, and an orchestra, this German composer was completely self-taught.  A baroque master, he learned how to play numerous instruments and composed over 50 oper
as though he was largely forgotten after his death because of the popular success of Haydn and Mozart.  FTP name this composer }{\f0\ul of Der Gedultige Socrates}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Der neu-modische Liebhaber Damon}{\f0 
, who is gaining recognition through studies by Max Schneider and Romain Rolland. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Georg Phillip }{\f0\ul Telemann}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  The son of a butcher of Ipswich, he was ordained a priest in 1498. Five years later he became Chaplain to Sir Richard Nanfan, who was the deputy lieutenant of Calais.  Nanfan subsequently recommended him
 to King Henry the 7th of England.  Upon Henry the Seventh's death, this man immediately befriended young Henry the Eighth and convinced him to surrender many of his administrative duties.  FTP identify this unchaste and greedy priest who set out to refor
m the English church, but ended up only reforming his financial status, making his own wealth second only to that of the king.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Thomas Cardinal }{\f0\ul Wolsey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  In 1989, it was reclassified from the status of asteroid to the status of comet.  It travels
 in an unstable, eccentric orbit beyond Saturn, and although it was discovered in 1977 by Charles Kowal its dusty envelope was not distinguished until 1989.  FTP give the name of this celestial body whose name is taken from the most knowledgeable Centaur 
in Greek mythology.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Chiron}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  This film originally had a scene that took place in a whorehouse.  The makers of the movie had known that its subject matter would be controversial anyway, so they included objectionable scenes such as that one in h
opes that they could appease censors by removing the outrageous scenes while keeping the story line the same.  FTP name this film that employs a complicated flashback structure in which the title character's friends and associates give their accounts of t
he man after his death, paradoxically revealing pathetic insecurity and emptiness instead of greatness or might.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Citizen Kane}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6.  During his friend Ralph Waldo Emerson's trip abroad in 1843, he took over the editorship of }{\f0\ul The Dial}{\f0 .  Speaking publ
icly against the Fugitive Slave Law, he eloquently defended John Brown after his capture in 1859. After his death from tuberculosis in 1862, a series of books about  his travels were published, including }{\f0\ul Cape Cod}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul 
A Yankee in Canada}{\f0 .  Because his first book, }{\f0\ul A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers}{\f0  had sold poorly, he had trouble finding a publisher for his second book.  FTP identify this author whose second book was _Walden_.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Henry David Thoreau
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  This mountainous country is roughly 300 m
iles long and 135 miles wide.  It is 120 miles northwest of the Japanese islands of Honshu and Kyushu.  Although it is mostly situated on a Peninsula, this country also consists of several islands, including Cheju Islan, which is located about 60 miles fr
om the southern tip of its mainland.  FTP name this country which is bordered on the east by the Sea of Japan, on the west by the Yellow Sea, and an unfriendly neighbor to the north.
\par Answer:  }{\f0\ul South Korea}{\f0 
\par 
\par 8.  He entered Harvard at age 12 and recei
ved his Bachelor's degree at the age of seventeen, despite having attacked Aristotelian logic at his graduation.  He soon entered Trinity College in Dublin, where he was offered a fellowship which he refused.  Upon returning to Boston, he became the minis
t
er of North Church and married his stepsister.  Upon the accession of William and Mary in 1689, he garnered a new governor and a new charter for the state of Massachusetts, both of which were unpopular.  FTP name this devoutly religious colonist and fathe
r of Cotton.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul I}{\f0 ncrease }{\f0\ul Mather}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 
9.  Also called 5-hydroxytryptamine, it is derived from the amino acid tryptophan.  Although it is also found in intestinal tissue, blood platelets, and mast cells, it is better known for its role as a neurotransmitte
r.  It is concentrated in the midbrain and hypothalamus, and changes in its concentration are associated with several mood disorders.  FTP name this chemical whose reuptake is inhibited by drugs such as Prozac.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul serotonin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10.  Twenty-five of the 
title character's verses form the last part of the novel.  Refused publication in the Soviet Union, the anti-Marxist passages in the hero's discussions with Uncle Kolya offended the censors.  The book centers on the experiences of a member of the intellig
ensia during the Russian Revolution and focuses on the protagonist's love for his mistress Lara.  FTP name this 1957 Boris Pasternak novel.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Doctor Zhivago}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. It is likely the result of mud slides from the Laurentian shelf, which rapidly buried t
he fauna that were present, preserving their morphology in great detail.  Many of the fossils here clearly belong to established phyla, but some, such as Hallucigenia do not, suggesting that the Cambrian Period during which it was formed, produced many un
ique phyla which are now extinct.  FTP name this site of many rare fossils of soft bodied organisms, found in the Canadian Rockies in 1909.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Burgess Shale}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12. Principally rooted in the old religions of Europe, this religion is a spiritual way of l
ife which celebrates the belief that each person should find his or her spirituality according to the dictates of the inner voice of their own soul.  It honors the Divine in all of its aspects, perceiving it within each person's own experience.  Members o
f this religion believe in seeking spiritual union with Divinity by exploring their inner selves and attuning to nature.  FTP name this faith which includes such traditions as shamanism and wicca.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Pagan}{\f0 ism
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  These pioneers of mixed Semitic and
 Asiatic origin settled in Northern Egypt during the 18th century BC.  They introduced the horse and chariot to Egypt, as well as the compound bow, improved battle axes, and advanced fortification techniques.  Their chief deity was Seth, the Egyptian stor
m and desert God, whom they identified with an Asiatic storm God.  FTP name these invaders who seized power in Egypt in about 1630 BC and ruled as the 15th dynasty.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Hyksos}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  Born in Chicago in 1932, he began his career as a writer and cartoonist for an adult magazine in 1952.  Also a composer, he received an Academy Award nomination for the song "I'm Checkin' Out," from the movie }{\f0\ul Postcards from the Edge}{\f0 
.  Although he never planned on writing and drawing for children, he was influenced by Ursula Nordstrom to do so, thus becoming best known for his childrens' poetry.  FTP, name this author of compilations such as }{\f0\ul Where the Sidewalk Ends}{\f0 .

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Shel }{\f0\ul Silverstein}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15.  This January 5, 1957 pronouncement promised military or economic aid to any Mi
ddle Eastern country needing help in resisting communist aggression.  However, this represented no real change in U.S. policy, since the Truman Doctrine had pledged similar support to Greece and Turkey ten years earlier.  FTP name this foreign policy stat
ement that was intended to check Soviet influence, and which was eponymously named for the sitting President at the time.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Eisenhower Doctrine}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  Elected to the Presidency of the American Association for the Advancement of Sciences in 1979, she was most notable for her forays into such topics as sexual morality, nuclear proliferation, and world hunger. In 1971 she wrote }{\f0\ul A Wrap on Race
}{\f0  with James Baldwin, but is perhaps more celebrated for her studies of the peoples of Oceania.  FTP name this outspoken American anthropologist who is best known for her perennial bestseller }{\f0\ul Coming of Age in Samoa}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Margaret }{\f0\ul Mead}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. Frederick Chausable is in love with Laetitia Prism, who had misplaced a child in an ordinary hand-bag at Victoria Station twenty-eight years ago.  Mr. Thomas Cardew found the boy and gave him the surname Worthing because he happened to have a first-cl
a
ss ticket to a seaside resort of the same name in Sussex.  Later, Jack Worthing's ward Cecily falls in love with Algernon Moncrieff, who is posing in the country as Jack's evil brother.  FTP name this 1895 classic comedy of errors in which both Jack and A
lgy's fiancees refuse to wed a man of the inappropriate name.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Importance of Being Earnest}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 18.  The ninth of ten children of a Revolutionary War veteran, he was born in 1782 in Salisbury, New Hampshire.  At the age of fifteen, he entered Dartm
outh College to begin studies which would later result in a lengthy career as a lawyer.  However, he is more famous for his political career which includes two different four-year stints in Congress, and two stints of varying lengths as a U.S. Senator.  F
TP name this Whig who served as Secretary of State from 1841 to 1843 and from 1850 to 1852.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Daniel }{\f0\ul Webster}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  Two answers required.  They were first introduced to each other in 1871 by Fred Clay.  Their first collaboration, entitled }{\f0\ul Thespis}{\f0 , was commissioned by John Hollingshead.  In 1875 they composed their first hit together, }{\f0\ul 
Trial by Jury}{\f0 , for Richard D'Oyly Carte.  FTP, name this comic opera team who later composed }{\f0\ul The Mikado}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Pirates of Penzance}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William }{\f0\ul Gilbert}{\f0  and Arthur }{\f0\ul Sullivan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20.  In his pursuit of a doctorate, his thesis was barely passed because the faculty at Uppsala were skeptical of his hypotheses.  They were devoted to experimental research, while he claimed to have never performed
\par an exact experiment in his life. 
 His theory was based on an ability to frame formulas to fit his facts, an ability which prompted physical chemist Wilhelm Ostwald to offer him a job based solely on his thesis. FTP identify this winner of the 1903 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his electro
lyte dissociation theory.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Svante }{\f0\ul Arrhenius}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab   
\par 21.  The most recent analysis for his 22nd number was completed by a high school teacher and a band of his students.  It was once carelessly assumed that all of his numbers are prime; however, Euler w
as able to show that his fifth number is divisible by 641.  For the purposes of cryptography, the hunt continues to find as many primes as possible in this collection of numbers.  FTP name the French mathematician of the 17th
\par century who gives his name to numbers of the form two-to-the-two-to-the-n plus one and to a theorem proved by Andrew Wiles.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Pierre de }{\f0\ul Fermat}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  His father was the Austrian envoy to the Rhenish principalities of the empire, and he had previously studied diplomacy at the Uni
versity of Strasbourg, until the spread of the French Revolution caused him to flee to Mainz in 1790.  In 1794 he undertook a diplomatic mission to England, where he published a pamphlet calling for the general arming of the German people.  FTP name this 
man who served as the Austrian minister of foreign affairs from 1809 to 1848, during which time he hosted the 1814-1815 Congress of Vienna.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Klemens Furst von }{\f0\ul Metternich}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23.  His autobiography contains the word "Confessions," although he confesses to less than we might be interested to read.  He reveals very little of his past homosexual experience, stating merely, "I had got over
\par like a spendthrift sigh my nearly passionate involvement with the one man whom sexual dalliance had not been loathsome 
for me to contemplate." After his death in 1989, Daniel Spoto published a biography of this man, clarifying that his secret interest was the actor Danny Kaye, and the omission of more interesting details in the autobiography was at the behest of the autho
r's wife, Joan Plowright.  FTP name this man who is better known for his acting.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Sir Laurence }{\f0\ul Olivier}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24.  There is evidence that hunters of the Folsom and Clovis American Indian cultures occupied this state as many as 15,000 years ago.  A sophis
ticated culture thrived here until Coronado conquered the land for Spain.  A mountainous subregion in the southern part of the state is known for having a rough topography and very thin soils.  The northeastern corner of the state is marked by the scenic 
but rough Ozark Plateau.  FTP name this state whose northern and central parts are drained by the Arkansas River and who has the only domeless capital building in the country.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Oklahoma
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Chicago LCY
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  William Faulkner incorporated many of his previously written or published materials into later works.  Each of the pieces in his }{\f0\ul Three Famous Short Novels}{\f0  had appeared in another Faulkner work.  FTPE, when
\par given the title of a work from }{\f0\ul Three Famous Short Novels}{\f0 , identify the other Faulkner work in which it had previously appeared.
\par 1.  }{\f0\ul Spotted Horses}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Hamlet}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  }{\f0\ul Old Man}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul If I Forgot thee, Jerusalem}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul The Wild Palms}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  }{\f0\ul The Bear}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Go Down, Moses}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  Identify the following battles FTPE.
\par 1.  This 1709 CE battle ended Sweden's status as a major power when 80,000 Russian troops under Peter the Great defeated 17,000 Swedes under Charles XII.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the Battle of  }{\f0\ul Poltava}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  This 1813 battle between 120,000 of Napoleon's troops and 170,000 Austrians, Prussians, and Russians led by Prince Karl Philipp Schwarzenberg was Napoleon's last major victoey in Germany. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the Battle of }{\f0\ul Dresden}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This battle between the combined forces of Britain and France against the Germans took place within 30 miles of Paris and lasted from September 6 to September 12, 1914.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul First}{\f0  Battle of the }{\f0\ul Marne}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par  3.  Before Voyager II found a plethora of other moons around Uranus, only five celestial bodies were known to constitute its 
satellite system.  Unlike other moons in the solar system, many of Uranus' are named after characters in works of English literature.  
\par 1.  FFPE, name the five originally-known moons of Uranus.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Miranda}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Oberon}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Ariel}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Titania}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Umbriel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Now, for an additional five points, identify the one whose name is not taken from any of Shakespeare's works.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Umbriel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  Identify this famous figure, 30-20-10.
\par 1.  This leading psychoanalyst served as director of the Hampstead Child Therapy Course and Clinic and served as its director from 1952 to 1982.
\par 2.  The publication of the 1936 work }{\f0\ul The Ego and Mechanisms of Defense}{\f0  gave a strong impetus to ego psychology, indicating that repression is an unconscious process that could prove dangerous to the growing child.
\par 3.  She fled to England from her Nazi-dominated Austria, where her father had practiced psychoanalysis in the generation before.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul A}{\f0 nna }{\f0\ul Freud}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  FTPE identify the type of coal from a brief description of it. 
\par 1.  It has the largest range of commercial uses among coals.  Varieties of this type that contain a relatively small amount of sulfur are the only kind of coal used to make coke.  It is also called soft coal, and it is composed of over 95% vitrinite.

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul bituminous}{\f0  coal
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  This is the least plentiful and most valuable of coals.  It contains more fixed carbon than any other coal, and it has the lowest amount of volatile matter.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul anthracite}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3.  This type of coal is formed from peat that is under a moderate amount of pressure, and it is one of teh first products of coalification.  This type comprises roughly 45% of the world's coal reserves, but it is rarely used for commercial pu
rposes because it has the lowest heating value.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul lignite}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 6.  In 1877, Congress created an Electoral College to resolve a disputed Presidential election.
\par 1.  FFPE name the two major candidates involved in the disputed election of 1876.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Rutherford B. }{\f0\ul Hayes}{\f0  and Samuel }{\f0\ul Tilden}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Now identify how many electoral votes Tilden received according to preliminary results.  You get ten points if you are exactly right, and you get five points if you are within five votes.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul 184}{\f0  (accept between 179 and 189)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Finally, FTP identify the independent associate justice of the Supreme Court who refused an appointment to the Electoral Commission.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  David }{\f0\ul Davis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  FFPE and an additional five points if you get them all correct, name all five of this year's Best Actor nominees for the Academy Awards.
\par Answer:  Tom }{\f0\ul Cruise}{\f0 , Ralph }{\f0\ul Fiennes}{\f0 , Woody }{\f0\ul Harrelson}{\f0 , Geoffery }{\f0\ul Rush}{\f0 , and Billy Bob }{\f0\ul Thornton}{\f0 
\par 
\par 8.  In the 1990's, books of long-historic importance in literary  traditions have been banned.  Given a brief description of an episode, identify the work of literature which sparked the controversy.
\par 1.  This compendium of children's stories was restricted in classrooms at the Kyrene, Arizona, elementary schools in 1994 because of its excessive violence, negative portrayal of female characters, and anti-semitic
\par references.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The Complete }{\f0\ul Fairy Tales}{\f0  of the Brothers }{\f0\ul Grimm}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
2.  In 1993, it was challenged as "obscene and pornographic," but it was retained in the West Shore schools in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania despite objections that it contains "more than three hundred examples of 'obscenities'," including tales of rape and mu
rder.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Bible}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3.  A ghostwriter's autobiography, in 1994 this book was restricted at the Jacksonville, Florida middle school libraries because it presents a racist view of white people and is a "how-to manual for crime."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Autobiography of Malcolm X}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.   Identify the Expressionist Painter or the recognized forerunner of Expressionism from their works for ten points on the first work, five points if you need a second work.
\par 1.  10:  }{\f0\ul Weavers}{\f0 
\par 5:  }{\f0\ul Potato Eaters}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Vincent }{\f0\ul Van Gogh}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10:  }{\f0\ul The Sick Child}{\f0 
\par 5:  }{\f0\ul The Scream}{\f0 
\par Answer:  Edvard }{\f0\ul Munch}{\f0 
\par 3. 10:  }{\f0\ul Skeletons Fighting for the Body of a Hanged Man}{\f0 
\par 5:  }{\f0\ul Entry of Christ into Brussels}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  James }{\f0\ul Ensor}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10.  Answer the following questions about the colonization of the Congo River Basin FTPE.
\par 1.  This conference was proposed by Portugal in pursuance of its special claim to control of the Congo estuary.  It ended up making it possible for the founding of an "independent" Congo Free State.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul Berlin West Africa}{\f0  Conference
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Th
is King of the Belgiums from 1865 to 1909 led the first European efforts to develop the Congo Basin.  At the Berlin West Africa Conference he was recognized as the sovereign ruler of the Congo Free State.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Leopold II}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This third largest country in Africa now occupies the heart of the Congo River Basin.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Zaire}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  FTPE, identify the Hebrew or Greek letter that is most often used to describe these mathematical or chemical objects:
\par 1.  Negative decay of this type results in a daughter nucleus, the proton number of which is one more than its parent but the mass number of which is the same.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Beta}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  It is used in the description of the first transfinite cardinal, representing the cardinality of any set in one-to-one correspondence with the natural numbers.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Aleph}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Omega}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  In its simplest form, the Riemann conjecture posits that the zeros of this important function lie only on a particular vertical line in the complex plane.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Zeta}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12.  For the stated number of points, identify the following Brazilian river basins.
\par 1.  5:  This river has more than 1,000 known tributaries, and it constitutes the largest river basin in the world. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul Amazon}{\f0  river basin
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  Most of Brazil has adequate precipitation.  However, this semiarid river basin in the northeastern part of the country averages only 25 inches of precipitation a year.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul Sao Francisco}{\f0  river basin
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  15:  Only about seven percent of Brazil's land area is considered arable, as three-fifths of it is forested.  The greater part of the arable land is in this river basin and along coastal areas.

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul Plata}{\f0  river basin
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  FTPE identify the international literary figure whose work has been immortalized on screen.
\par 1.  This communist Chilean poet was the subject of the Postman's admiration in }{\f0\ul Il Postino}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Pablo }{\f0\ul Neruda}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  This Greek novelist was never awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature, but the film based on his }{\f0\ul Last Temptation of Christ}{\f0 
 garnered him more notoriety than he might have received had he won the Nobel Prize instead.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Nikos }{\f0\ul Kazantzakis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This cousin-marrying Baroness' autobiographical account of life on a coffee plantation in British East Africa was made into a movie in 1985.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Isak }{\f0\ul Dinesen}{\f0  (or Karen }{\f0\ul Blixen}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  Identify the twentieth century composer, 30-20-10.
\par 1. Born in 1892 of Swiss parents, he spent much of his life in France. After studying at the Zurich Conservatory in 1912 he moved on to the Paris Conservatory.  The dramatic oratorio }{\f0\ul King David}{\f0  established his reputation.
\par 2.  This member of Les Six composed the music for several films, including }{\f0\ul Pygmalion }{\f0 and }{\f0\ul Cavalcade D'amour}{\f0 .  In 1951 he published his autobiography, }{\f0\ul Je Suis Compositeur}{\f0 .
\par 3.  Some of his works include }{\f0\ul Rugby}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Pacific 231}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul La Danse des Morts.}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Arthur }{\f0\ul Honegger}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15.  For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about the Krebs Cycle.
\par 1.  FTP, the cycle ends with the regeneration of what four-carbon compound which reacts with acetyl-coenzyme A at the start of the cycle?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul oxaloacetate}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  For another ten points, oxaloacetate is regenerated through the oxidation of this acid, which had been formed from the addition of a water molecule to fumerate.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul malate}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul malic acid}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  FFPE, how many molecules of carbon dioxide and ATP are formed after the completion of one turn of the cycle?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul two}{\f0  carbon dioxide and }{\f0\ul one}{\f0  ATP
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  Identify the following influential Speakers of the House, FTPE if you only need a brief description of their accomplishments, for five points if you need the years in which they served as Speaker.
\par 1.  10:  He consolidated the House rules, thereby strengthening the powers of  the Speaker.  He was the first chairman of the permanent House Rules Committee.
\par 5:  1876-1881
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Samuel Jackson }{\f0\ul Randall}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10: He had ascended to power in the Republican Party by trying to derail the New Deal programs.  H
e failed in doing this in large part because the Democrats had been in control of Congress.  Once the Republicans gained control, he was named Speaker and he tried to reinstitute adherence to conservative principles.
\par 5:  1947-1949, and 1953-1955
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Joseph William }{\f0\ul Martin}{\f0  Jr.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  A party leader as well as House speaker, he was chairman of the Democratic National Conventions of 1948, 1952, and 1956.
\par 5:  1940-1947, 1949-1953, and 1957-1961
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Sam }{\f0\ul Rayburn}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 17.  For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about authorship of some  books of the Bible.
\par 1.  First, FFPE name the three books that are said to have been written by King Solomon.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Ecclesiastes}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Kohelet}{\f0 ), }{\f0\ul Song of Songs}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Song of Solomon}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Shir Hashirim}{\f0 ), and }{
\f0\ul Proverbs}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Mishlei}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Now, for five points, who wrote the }{\f0\ul Book of Judges}{\f0 ?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Samuel}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Shmuel}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  And for a final 10 points, who wrote }{\f0\ul Kings I}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Kings II}{\f0 ?\tab 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Jeremiah}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Yirmiyahu}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18.  FTPE, name the Steinbeck novel from its first sentence.
\par 1.  "To the red country and part of the gray country of Oklahoma, the last rains came gently, and they did not cut the scarred earth."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Grapes of Wrath}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  "When the fair gold morning of April stirred Mary Hawley awake, she turned over to her husband and saw him, little fingers pulling a frog mouth at her."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Winter of Our Discontent}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  "Lee Chong's grocery, while not a model of neatness, was a miracle of supply."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Cannery Row}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  Poland was divided three times during the 18th century. 
\par 1.  FFPE name the three countries that divided Poland amongst themselves during the latter half of the 18th century.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Russia}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Austria}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Prussia}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Now FFPE, give the years in which these partitions took place.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul 1772}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul 1793}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul 1795}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20.  FTPE, when given a brief description of a Chinese God, give his name.  If you get them all right , they may shine favorably upon you and grant you many good wishes to come.
\par 1.  This ancient Chinese deity of luck, also known as "the old-one of the South Pole,"  later became a God of fate and longevity.  He owns the elixir of life, and his attribute is the peach of immortality.  His symbolic animal is the turtle.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Shou Lao}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  The Chinese God of riches who is called upon against thunder and diseases.  He is said to ride on a black tiger.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Cai Shen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  The Chinese God of happiness, he is portrayed wearing the blue clothes of a civil servant, and with a child sitting on his arm.  He forms a powerful triad of Gods with Cai Shen and Shou Lao.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Fu Shen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  Many poets have used fairies to describe beauty.  FTP identify the following poems from a brief passage or for five points if you need the name of the poet.
\par 1.  10:  'I met a lady in the meads, / Full beautiful -  a faery's child, / Her hair was long, her foot was light, / And her eyes were wild.'
\par 5:  John Keats
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul La Belle Dame sans Merci}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  'We who are old, old and gay, / O so old! / Thousands of years, thousands of years, / If all were told.'
\par 5:  William Butler Yeats
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Faery Song}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3.  10:  'Farewell, rewards and fairies, / Good housewives now may say, / For now foul sluts in dairies /Do fare as well as they; / And though they sweep their hearths no less / Than maids were wont to do / Yet who of late for cleanliness / Finds sixpence
 in her shoe?'
\par 5:  Richard Corbet
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Fairies Farewell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  Identify the following men associated with the excavation of antiquity in the late 19th century FTPE.
\par 1.  In 1873 he uncovered fortifications for and the remains of a city of great antiquity.  Believing he had found Homeric Troy, he published }{\f0\ul Trojan Antiquity}{\f0  in 1874.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Heinrich }{\f0\ul Schliemann}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Many scholars were skeptical about Schliemann's work, but this Prime Minister of England, who happened to be a classical scholar, accepted his identification of Troy.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William }{\f0\ul Gladstone}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Although Schliemann had planned to dig on the island of Crete, he never did, leaving the door open for this Brit to excavate the city of Knosss and to name the Minoan civilization.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Sir Arthur (John) }{\f0\ul Evans}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 23.  Name the instrument, 30-20-10.
\par 1.  There are more instruments of this type than of any other kind.
\par 2.  Frederick the Great of Prussia played it, and he composed several short pieces for it.
\par 3.  In this instrument, sound is produced by a stream of air directed against a sharp edge, upon which the air breaks up into eddies that regularly alternate above and below the edge.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul flute}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24.  Name the historical figure, 30-20-10.
\par 1.  After becoming a well-known doctor in London in the 1770's, he published }{\f0\ul Essay on the Human Soul}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul A Philosophical Essay on Man}{\f0 .
\par 2.  Upon returning to the continent, his paper on electricity was honored by the Royal Academy of Rouen in 1783.
\par 3.  After failing to be elected to the Academie des Science, many historians believed that he developed a "martyr complex" that was later played out in his dramatic murder that was immortalized in a painting by David.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Jean-Paul }{\f0\ul Marat}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 25.  FTPE, when given a short description of an episode in James Joyce's }{\f0\ul Ulysses}{\f0 , give the corresponding figure or place visited by Homer's Odysseus.
\par 1.  Leopold Bloom steps into the Ormand Restaurant, where a barmaid, Miss Lydia Douce, brings him to the drinking point.  The jingle of Blazes Boylan's jaunting-car is heard in the distance.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Sirens}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
2.  An ancient cab, littered with the crumbs of a departed picnic party, its upholstery mildewed and buttonless, a properly lugubrious vehicle conveys Bloom, Power, Simon Daedalus, and Martin Cunningham to the cemetary, behind Dignam's hearse.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Hades}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3.  Stephen idles on a Dublin strand and ponders the "ineluctable modality of the visible."  Throughout his self-communings, he tries to grasp, whether metaphysically or mystically, the eternal ideas associated with the vision of primordial Eden.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Proteus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab 
\par }}