{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{
\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{
\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{
\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 \additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}
{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min54}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min54}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords4042}{\nofchars23043}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws28298}{\vern89}}
\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000100039}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by "Retirement Greatly Exaggerated" (Matt Colvin, John Nam, and Willie Keller)
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  Part One of this book centers on the aesthetic young man.  Part Two contains Judge Vilhelm's defense of roma
ntic love.  Told in the persona of a fictitious editor, this philosophical work brings together such wildly diverse things as reflections on Mozart, a sermon, and the famous Seducer's Diary.  FTP, what is this 1843 book, subtitled "A Fragment of Life", in
 which Soren Kierkegaard sets out the existentialist idea of radical choice?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Either/Or}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  A native Texan, he began his naval career in submarines, as an ensign on the U.S.S. Plunger.  He organized the first training division for reserve officers
 at the University of California, and supervised the construction of the Navy's first diesel ship engine.  As an admiral in 1942, shrewd codebreaking allowed him to order counteroffensives at Midway and Coral Sea, though he left tactical control in the ha
nds of subordinates like Spruance and Halsey.  FTP, name this admiral who received the Japanese surrender aboard his flagship, the U.S.S. Missouri.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Chester William }{\f0\ul Nimitz}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  Born in 1717, this French Mathematician was abandoned as a newborn near
 the church for which he was named. The principle of kinetics which now bears his name states that the internal actions and reactions of a system of rigid bodies in motion are in equilibrium. FTP name the author of Traite de Dynamique, who worked with Did
erot on the great French Encyclopedie, and who served as the permanent secretary of the French Academy from 1756 until his death in 1783.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Jean-le-Rond }{\f0\ul D'Alembert}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  Once, he was so lost in thought that he didn't notice as ants built an anthill a
round him.  He is said to have lived by theft until he was admonished by Narada, the adviser of the gods.  According to another story, he saw a hunter's arrow shoot down a mating bird, and from "soka"--sorrow--flowed "sloka":  poetry.  He refers to himsel
f in the third person, using the epithet "bull of a sage."  FTP, name this legendary composer of the Ramayana.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Valmiki}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  In 1843, he was appointed professor at the new Leipzig Conservatory, but mental illness compelled him to leave for Dusseldo
rf, where he attempted suicide before spending his last two years in an asylum.  Among his works are "Scenes from Childhood," "Kreisleriana," and "Carnaval." FTP, name this composer who married Clara, the daughter of his piano teacher Friedrich Wieck.

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Robert }{\f0\ul Schumann}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6.  It is said that toward the end of his life, he fell out of favor with the Emperor, who ordered his property confiscated and his eyes put out.  A harsh reward for a lifetime of brilliant military service -- in 532, he suppressed t
he Nika Riot, and in the next two years, he defeated the Vandals and captured their king, Gelimer.  Sent to Italy, he captured the Gothic capital of Ravenna before being replaced by the Emperor's eunuch Narses.  All this is recorded in the writings of Pro
copius, his secretary. FTP, name this general of the Emperor Justinian.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Belisarius}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  In 1968, he founded the Shield Society, a group of 100 youths dedicated to a revival of Bushido, the Samurai honor code.  He wrote modern Kabuki and Noh drama, but is better known for novels such as the }{\f0\ul Sea of Fertility}{\f0 
 trilogy, and his first major work, }{\f0\ul Confessions of a Mask}{\f0 .  FTP, name this Japanese author who disemboweled himself with his sword in 1970.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Yukio }{\f0\ul Mishima}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  He explained the origin of the Fraunhofer lines in the spectrum of sunlight and suggest
ed that at a given temperature the ratio of the emissivity and the absorptivity of any solid surface is the same irrespective of wavelength when the radiation is in equilibrium with the solid surface. FTP name the scientist who also helped Bunsen discover
 cesium and rubidium and has two laws of electric circuits that also bear his name.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Gustav }{\f0\ul Kirchoff}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  The Greek artist Lysippos was said to have taken up sculpture when he was inspired by this earlier statue.  The best surviving copy of it is l
ocated in the Naples Archaeological Museum, though many others exist, no doubt all informed by the treatise on the human body that its sculptor wrote.  Though the name of the statue can be translated as "bodyguard," it is probably best understood to mean 
"spear-carrier."  FTP, name this masterpiece of Polyclitos.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Doryphoros}{\f0  ("Door - IF - or -os")
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 10.  As a U.S. Senator from South Carolina, he was a supporter of Jefferson, who named him ambassador to Spain, where he secured Spanish acceptance 
of the Louisiana Purchase.  But his diplomatic skills were not always so good:  He is said to have spoken the famous words, "Millions for defense, sir, but not one cent for tribute!"  FTP, name this minister to France under John Adams, who along with John
 Marshall and Elbridge Gerry, represented the U.S. in the XYZ affair.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Charles }{\f0\ul Pinckney}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  She served as president of the Detection Club from 1949 until her death, but she had abandoned mystery writing for a sequence of radio plays about the lif
e of Christ, called "The Man Born to be King" and for translations of the Song of Roland and of Dante.  In 11 short stories, she created the traveling detective Montague Egg, but she is better known for Harriet Vane, who was introduced in the }{\f0\ul 
novel Strong Poison}{\f0 .  FTP, name this creator of the elegant Lord Peter Wimsey.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Dorothy (Leigh) }{\f0\ul Sayers}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12.  Some scientists maintain that the epidemiology of AIDS is incomplete because these criteria have not been rigorously observed.  They are four in number
:  1.  An organism must be observed in all cases of the disease;  2.  The organism must be isolated and grown in pure culture;  3.  The culture must be capable of reproducing the disease when innoculated into an experimental animal; and 4.  The organism m
ust be recovered from the experimental disease.  FTP, these postulates for proving pathogenic causation were laid down by and are named for what German bacteriologist.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Robert }{\f0\ul Koch}{\f0  ("kokh")
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. It originated in a baker's shop on Pudding Lane.  Sam
uel Pepys wrote that it was "in corners and upon steeples, and between churches and houses as far as we could see."  He might have added that it also spread to the old Gothic cathedral of St. Paul's, which had to be rebuilt by Sir Christopher Wren.  FTP, 
name this cataclysm of three days and three nights 1666.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Great Fire of London}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  In the prologue to the Nun's Priest's Tale, this other Canterbury pilgrim is interrupted in mid-story by the Knight, who complains about the depressing nature 
of his narrative.  His theme is reversals of fortune, which he exemplifies with accounts of Ugolino, Pedro of Spain, and Bernabo of Milan, as well as 14 other tragedies.  FTP, name this pilgrim, about whom the host jokingly laments that such a virile man 
cannot procreate.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Monk}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15.  They are formed by synthesis with Grignard reagents; the action of carbon monoxide on sodium alkyls; or by oxidation of secondary alcohols. They form additive compounds such as sodium hydrogen sulphite, and consist
 of two hydrocarbon radicals attached to a carbonyl group.  FTP, name this class of compounds, the simplest of which is acetone.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul ketones}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  After four years of working as a photojournalist for "Look" magazine, he made a short documentary about
 a boxer, entitled "Day of the Fight." RKO-Pathe studios commissioned another short, "The Seafarers", which was followed by a feature film called "Fear and Desire."  He used a novel by Thackeray as the basis for his 1975 "Barry Lyndon."  FTP, name this di
rector of "Full Metal Jacket," "The Shining," and }{\f0 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0 2001:  A Space Odyssey.}{\f0 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Stanley }{\f0\ul Kubrick}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17.  Born in Budapest, he trained in Vienna as a lawyer.  After working as a reporter on the Dreyfus case in France, he published his two important political works:}{\f0\ul  Old-New Land}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Jewish State}{\f0 
.  In 1897, he convened at Basel the first Zionist Congress.  FTP, name this first president of the World Zionist Organization.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Theodor }{\f0\ul Herzl}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18.  She lives in the town of Stockbridge, Massachusetts, in the bell tower of a former church with her husband Ray and Fasha the dog.  Their habit of dumping ga
rbage into the space where the pews of the church used to be led to the problems chronicled in song by Arlo Guthrie.  FTP, name this famous restauranteur.\tab 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Alice}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  As a child, he was raised in the forest by a poet.  His first wife was Sedb, m
other of his son Ossian.  His second wife was Grainne, who betrays him with his kinsman Diarmuid.  In service to the high king at Tara, he organizes a band of adventurers and leads them, using the great wisdom he gained from eating the salmon of knowledge
.  FTP, name this legendary Irish hero of the poems in the Fenian cycle.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Fionn mac Cumhail}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Finn mac Cumhail}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Finn MacCool}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 20.  It was an attack on the certainties of traditional scholastic thinking that prevailed at the time.  It proposed 
that all knowledge must begin with doubt and proceed to the accumulation of a body of evidence before any certainty can be obtained.  Although even personal existence had to be doubted, the proof of the existence was postulated by the phrase "Cogito, ergo
 sum."  FTP, give either the French title or its English translation of this famous essay of Rene Descartes.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Discourse on Method}{\f0   (or }{\f0\ul Discours de la methode}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab 
\par 21.  Based on an addendum to an army appropriations bill of 1901 and motivated by fear 
of the imperialistic schemes of Germany, this document proclaimed that United States forbade the government of a certain island from going into debt or stopping the United States from imposing a sanitation program.  Also, the United States could intervene
 to keep order or maintain the island's independence, and could buy or lease sites for naval bases -- the main one being Guantanamo Bay.  FTP, name this Amendment
\par to the Cuban Constitution.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Platt}{\f0  Amendment
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  He broke into the major leagues
 with the Chicago White Stockings at the age of twenty-one, and played there for eight seasons before a conversion experience led him into YMCA work.  After his ordination as a Presybyterian minister, in 1895 he began the work for which he is most famous,
 his flamboyant style combining acrobatics and high-pressure techniques.  FTP, name this man, one of the most popular revivalists in American History.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William Ashley "Billy" }{\f0\ul Sunday}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23.  Alexander Pope and Jonathan Swift used this two-word term to
 refer to any kind of literary trash.  It is part of the title of a novel by George Gissing, and was described by Samuel Johnson as "much inhabited by writers of small histories, dictionaries, and temporary poems."  FTP, name this London street, now renam
ed Milton Street, famous in the 18th century for the struggling hacks living there..
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Grub Street}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24.  Believing that natural selection was the only possible impetus for evolution, this German biologist alienated many contemporaries who were willi
ng to invoke non-Darwinian factors. FTP name this follower of recapitulation theory, who believed that traits were passed on to offspring as determinants which made up the germ plasm.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  August }{\f0\ul Weismann}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 25.  This isotope, primarily used in radioiso
topic thermal generators such as those aboard spacecraft, like the doom Russian Mars probe, produces 6.9 watts per cubic centimeter. Created by neutron absorption followed by beta decay in Neptunium 237, it is not fissile and can not be used in atomic wea
pons. FTP name the isotope of plutonium which has a half-life of only 87 years.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Plutonium - 238
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by "Retirement Greatly Exaggerated" (Matt Colvin, John Nam, and Willie Keller)
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  The Doctors of the Eastern church are John Chrysostom, Gregory of Nazantius, Basil, and Athanasius.  Don't worry, we won't ask you about them.  Instead, identify these Doctors of the Western Church on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1.  10:  He was bishop of Milan, and died in 397.
\par 5:  He fought for the integrity of the Church against the Empress-regent Justina, resisting the introduction of the Arian heresy. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  St. }{\f0\ul Ambrose}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  He was He was born in Croatia and was the secretary for Pope Damasus.  His real name was Eusebius Hieronymus.
\par 5:  He translated the Bible into Latin.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  St. }{\f0\ul Jerome}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  While a monk in Rome, he saw some Anglo-Saxon youths in the slave market and was seized with a longing to convert their country to Christianity, saying, when
 told that they were Angles, "Not Angles, but Angels!" 
\par 5:  He systematized the sacred chant.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  St. }{\f0\ul Gregory}{\f0  I 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  The editor is taking Jackson}{\f0 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0 s }{\f0\ul Classical Electrodynamics}{\f0  right now and despising every minute of it.  In 
order that he may achieve some measure of  catharsis, answer the following E&M questions FTP each.
\par 1.  Asserting that the divergence of the magnetic field is zero, it also makes the statement that there are no magnetic monopoles.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Gauss's Law of Magnetism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  The speed of light in vacuum is the reciprocal of the square root of the product of what two quantities?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul permittivity}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul permeability}{\f0  of free space
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Finally, this equation asserts that the divergence of the current and the partial derivative of charge density with respect to time add up to zero.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Equation of }{\f0\ul Continuity}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Charge Conservation}{\f0  law
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  Identify these poets from some lines of poetry for 10 points, or for 5 if you need the title of the poem.
\par 1.  10:  "What the hammer? what the chain?/In what furnace was thy brain?"
\par 5:  "The Tyger"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William }{\f0\ul Blake}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  "And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, / Slouches toward Bethlehem to be born?"
\par 5:  "The Second Coming"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William Butler }{\f0\ul Yeats}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10:  "'Twas mercy brought me from my pagan land, / Taught my benighted soul to understand / ... / Remember, Christians, Negros, black as Cain,/May be refined, and join th' angelic train"
\par 5:  "On Being Brought from Africa to America"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Phyllis }{\f0\ul Wheatley}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  Name these architectural terms, 10 each:
\par 1.  The frieze of a Doric temple was divided into several alternating sculpted panels.  On the Parthenon, they depicted the battle between the Lapiths and Centaurs and other epic combats.  What are these panels called?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Metopes}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Metopes were separated by panels of three raised lines, whose name comes from the Greek for "carved in three parts".  Name them.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Triglyphs}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Finally, name the triangular gable above the frieze on the ends of the temple, containing sculptures.  On the Parthenon, one depicts the birth of Athena.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Pediment}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  For 10 points each, given a theater of operations during World War II, tell me the U.S. military figure who commanded that theater.  For exampl
e, if I said, "Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Forces in Europe, 1943-45" you'd reply, "Dwight Eisenhower."
\par 1.  Commander, Southwest Pacific Ocean Areas, 1942-1945.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Douglas A. }{\f0\ul MacArthur}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Commander, U.S. Twelfth Army Group, 1944-1945.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Omar N. }{\f0\ul Bradley}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Commander, U.S. Navy Forces, South Pacific, October 1942-1944; Commander, U.S. 3rd Fleet, 1944-1945.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William F. "Bull" }{\f0\ul Halsey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 6.  It's time for a bonus about "theater."  FTP each, identify the following terms or groups, all of which feature the word "theater."
\par 1.  This term refers to tendencies in dramatic literature that emerged in Paris during the late 1940s and early '50s.  Th
e playwrights loosely grouped under this label endeavor to convey their sense of bewilderment, anxiety, and wonder in the face of an inexplicable universe.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul theater of the absurd}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  This term refers to a performing space surrounded on all sides b
y the audience, usually in raked or tiered seats, creating an intimacy not possible with proscenium stages and making the audience more aware of itself.  The first modern theater totally devoted to this form was Glen Hughes' Penthouse Theatre at the Unive
rsity of Washington.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul theater in the round}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3.  It was an American theater society founded in New York City in 1919 to promote excellence in theatrical productions on a noncommercial basis.  In its heyday in the 1920s it produced plays by O'Neill, Shaw, and Chekhov, and featured such established st
ars as Helen Hayes, and Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne. In 1935 it produced Gershwin's Porgy and Bess and in 1943, Rodgers and Hammerstein's Oklahoma!
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Theatre Guild}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  If you've played in enough academic tournaments, you've probably heard a question asking you to name the four stages of mitosis, e.g., anaphase, metaphase, prophase, and telophase.  Answer the following questions about them FTP each.
\par 1.  In this stage, the chromosomes become arranged in the equatorial plane of the spindle.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Metaphase}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Chromosomes move toward the poles of the spindle during this stage.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Anaphase}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Chromosomes are condensed from the resting form and split into paired chromatids in this stage, the initial stage of mitosis.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Prophase}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  30-20-10-5 Name this person.
\par 1.  The son of a lawyer, he took a degree in law at Oxford at age 15 in 1763 but never practiced, spending his life as a theorist and advocate of various reform causes.
\par 2.  His first book, }{\f0\ul Fragment on Government}{\f0  (1776), was a sustained criticism of Sir William Blackstone, whose }{\f0\ul Commentaries}{\f0  was the basic document for the English legal system.
\par 3.  After his death, his body was decapitated, embalmed, affixed with a wax replica of his head, and dressed in his customary clothes;  it is still preserved in that condition at University College, London.
\par 4.  In his most famous work, }{\f0\ul An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation}{\f0 , he proposed a "hedonic calculus" that would enable moral decisions to be made on quantitative rather than impressionistic evidence.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Jeremy }{\f0\ul Bentham}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  For five points each, given the characters from science fiction or fantasy, name the authors who created them.
\par 1.  Rand al'Thor
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Robert }{\f0\ul Jordan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Thomas Covenant
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Stephen R. }{\f0\ul Donaldson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Lazarus Long
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Robert A. }{\f0\ul Heinlein}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4.  Ged, Archmage of Roke
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Ursula K. }{\f0\ul LeGuin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5.  Ender Wiggin
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Orson Scott }{\f0\ul Card}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 6.  Salvor Hardin
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Isaac }{\f0\ul Asimov}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 10.  30-20-10 Name this person.
\par 1.   In 1989, presumably as part of the new policy of Glasnost, Pravda revealed that parts of his memoirs, published in 1969, had been suppressed; Pravda declared that he had condemned Stalin for his brutal purge of the Soviet army leadership prior to Wor
ld War II and for his annihilation of untold numbers of innocent Soviet citizens.
\par 2.  His long friendship with Nikita Khrushchev helped bring him back  to prominence after Stalin's death, and while Minister of Defense, he was instrumental in blocking an att
empt to oust Khrushchev in 1957, but he was forced to resign due to Khrushchev's suspicions later that year.
\par 3.  During his military career, he rose from the tsarist army ranks to become the most decorated military figure in Soviet history, four times a "Hero of the Soviet Union."  He was involved in every great Soviet victory during World War II.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Georgy Konstantinovich }{\f0\ul Zhukov}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  Answer these seemingly unrelated questions for 10 points each.
\par 1.  One of the twelve apostles, he was a son of Zebedee and brother of  James.  He is frequently called "the beloved disciple" because he is referred to as "that disciple whom Jesus loved" in a book of the Bible.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  St. }{\f0\ul John}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  His verse autobiography, The Dust Which is God, won the 1942 Pulitzer Pri
ze for American Poetry.  A founder of The Saturday Review of Literature, he was less well-known than his brother, a novelist, poet, and short-story writer.  Now, however, he is more widely-read, at least among quiz bowl players.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William Rose }{\f0\ul Benet}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  The central characters of Virginia Woolf's novel To the Lighthouse, the wife is a personification of creative womanhood; the husband is a typical intellectual male.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Mr. and Mrs. }{\f0\ul Ramsay}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12.  How well do you know the atomic weights of chemic
al elements?  If you're expert enough to name them, based on the atomic weight of the most common isotope of the element, you will receive 10 points per answer.  If you name the chemical elements from their atomic numbers, you will get 5 points per answer
.  
\par 1.  10:  Atomic Weight:  26.9815  
\par 5:  Atomic Number:  13
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Aluminum}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  Atomic Weight:  47.90
\par 5:  Atomic Number:  22
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Titanium}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  Atomic Weight:  83.80
\par 5:  Atomic Number:  36
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Krypton}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  Identify the following military-related terms on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 1.  5:  This term is defined in Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary as "specifically, a violent surprise offensive by massed air forces and mechanized ground forces in close coordination."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul blitzkrieg}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  This Italian term refers to the leader or members of bands of mercenaries common in Europe between the 14th and 16th Centuries.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Condotierre}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  15:  From the Dutch phrase meaning "Lost Band," this term applied to 
the British practice of gathering a group of volunteers, usually by promising quick promotion to survivors, to be the first over the walls at a seige.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul forlorn hope}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  Rather than Travels with Charley Steinhice or Travels with Vishnu, we bring you Travels with Matt Colvin.  Name the sculptors of these statues that Matt saw in Florence 10 each:
\par 1.  On the 3rd floor of the Museo del Bargello, Matt found a room with dozens of small bronze statuettes, among them the 18-inch-high Hercules and Antaeus by this sculptor.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Antonio }{\f0\ul Pollaiolo}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  On the third floor of the Palazzo Vecchio, in a tiny room with a window overlooking the Piazza, Matt recognized the often-imitated "Putto with Dolphin" by this teacher of Leonardo.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Andrea del }{\f0\ul Verocchio}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Jumping out the window and falling 100 feet to the ground, Matt looked at this artist's "Perseus Trampling Medusa Underfoot and Exhibiting Her Severed Head" in the Loggia dei Lanzi.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Benvenuto }{\f0\ul Cellini}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 15.  Name these Caribbean authors after some titles for 15 points, or for 5 if you need another clue.
\par 1.  15:  Poetry collections }{\f0\ul The Star-Apple Kingdom}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul In a Green Night}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Unfortunate Traveler}{\f0  and the play }{\f0\ul Henri Christophe}{\f0 
\par 5:  In the essay "What the Twilight Says" that introduces his volume }{\f0\ul The Dream on Monkey Mountain}{\f0 , this St. Lucia-born Nobel laureate discusses the West Indian creative imagination.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Derek }{\f0\ul Walcott}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  15:  }{\f0\ul The Miraculous Weapons}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Lost Body}{\f0 , and the Caribbean review }{\f0\ul Tropiques}{\f0 
\par 5:  In his first poem, the }{\f0\ul Notebook of a Return to the Native Land}{\f0 , he sets out the principles of the negritude movement that he founded.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Aime ("ay-MAY") }{\f0\ul Cesaire}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  The plots of many operas turn around certain key items, such as a hunk of cursed gold or a magic flute.  Name these other operas given such items for 10 points each, or for 5 if you need another clue.
\par 1.  10:  A staff that sprouts leaves.
\par 5:  In this Wagner opera, the title hero must embark on a pilgrimage to Rome to cleanse himself of sins incurred during a visit to the very venial Venusburg.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Tannhauser}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  Magical shot of which the first six bullets go straight to the target but the seventh is guided by the Black Huntsman.
\par 5:  The main event in this Carl Maria von Weber work is a big shooting contest which Max must win in order to win Agathe for his bride.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Der }{\f0\ul Freischutz}{\f0  or The }{\f0\ul Sharpshooter}{\f0  or The }{\f0\ul Freeshooter}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  Incredibly long hair a la Rapunzel and a wedding ring that falls into a well at midnight.
\par 5:  Claude Debussy based his only opera on an 1893 Maeterlinck play.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Pelleas et Melisande}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Pelleas and Melisande}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17.  Name this scientist from clues 30-20-10.
\par 1.  After receiving a doctorate in 1925 for research on polonium's alpha rays, this French scientist became Undersecretary of State for scientific research in 1936 and then, in 1946, director of the Radium Institute.
\par 2.  She was forced to interru
pt her studies in physics during WWI to help her mother as an X-ray technician, and during WWII, she took part in the Resistance as a member of the National Front, but in 1950, she was squeezed out of the French Atomic Energy Commission for her communism.

\par 3.  For succeeding in producing radioactive elements artificially, she, with her husband, she was awarded the 1935 Nobel Prize in chemistry. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Irene }{\f0\ul Joliot-Curie}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18.  Henry VIII was a scoundrel.  Answer the following about him, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5: In 1537, Henry hired as his portraitist this German painter who executed his most famous likeness.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Hans }{\f0\ul Holbein the Younger}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  In 1521, Henry received the title "Defender of the Faith" as a reward for publishing a book on the sacraments, in which he argued against what theologian?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Martin }{\f0\ul Luther}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3.  15:  Henry was immediately succeeded by his son, Edward VI, who died of tuberculoss, having agreed to the succession of Lady Jane Grey. He was 17 at the time of his death.  Name EITHER of the two men who ruled England during his minority--one the brot
her of one of Henry's wives, the other the man who proclaimed Lady Jane Grey queen.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Edward }{\f0\ul Seymour}{\f0  (accept The Duke of }{\f0\ul Somerset}{\f0 ) or John }{\f0\ul Dudley}{\f0  (accept The Duke of }{\f0\ul Northumberland}{\f0 
 or Earl of }{\f0\ul Warwick}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 19.  Time for that last refuge of the science-ignorant question writer, the glacier bonus.  Name these glacier-related formations for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points, this deposit of debris comes in terminal, median, lateral, and recessional varieties.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul moraine}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  For 5 points, this is an elongated, spoon-shaped hill, usually occurring in groups of several thousand, formed by glacier ice shearing over other, stationary glacier ice.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul drumlin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  For 10 points, this is a steep-walled basin, shaped like a half-amphitheatre, that forms at the head of a glaciated valley.  It may contain a small body of water which is called a kettle lake.

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul cirque}{\f0  ("surk")
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4.  For a final 10 points, this i
s a chunk of rock that can range in size from a small boulder to as large as a house, carried up to hundreds of miles by a glacier.  Because of it originates far from the place it eventually settles, its composition is generally different from that of the
 surrounding bedrock, hence its name.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  glacial }{\f0\ul erratic}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20.  This Iowa-born playwright and novelist founded the Provincetown Players with her husband George Cram Cook.  Author of such plays as }{\f0\ul Suppressed Desires, with Cook}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Trifles}{\f0 , she won the
 Pulitzer Prize in 1931 for her play based on the life of another American woman.
\par 1.  For 10 points each, name this 20th-century playwright and the reclusive 19th century poet who was the subject of that Pulitzer prize-winning play. 
\par \tab Answers:  Susan }{\f0\ul Glaspell}{\f0  and Emily }{\f0\ul Dickinson}{\f0 
\par 2.  And for a final 10 points, name the play.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Alison's House}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  Given a list of works, name the series of which they are a part on a 5-10-15 basis.  For example, if I said, "The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King," you'd respond, "The Lord of the Rings."
\par 1.  5:  }{\f0\ul The 42nd Parallel}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul 1919}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Big Money}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul U.S.A}{\f0 . Trilogy (J. Dos Passos)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  }{\f0\ul The Man of Property}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul In Chancery}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul To Let}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Forsyte Saga}{\f0  (J. Galsworthy)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  15:  }{\f0\ul Justine}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Balthazar}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Mountolive}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Clea}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  The }{\f0\ul Alexandria Quartet}{\f0  (A. Durrell)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. For 5 points per answer, given a ruler, name both his predecessor and successor.
\par 1.  Alexander III of Macedon.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Philip II}{\f0  and either }{\f0\ul Alexander IV}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Philip III}{\f0  Aridaios
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  The Roman Emperor Nerva.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Domitian}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Trajan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  The Persian king Xerxes.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Darius I}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Darius The Great}{\f0 ) and }{\f0\ul Artaxerxes I}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul Longimanus}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 
\par 
\par \tab 
\par }}