{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min53}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min53}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3144}{\nofchars17925}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws22013}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e69780001000030309d}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by Georgia Tech
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. To justify the increase of the army, he warned that the great questions of the day will not be settled by speeches and majority decisions but by blood and iron." in an 1861 speech.  FTP name this Prusso\_
German statesman, who was the architect and first chancellor of the German Empire. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Prince Otto von }{\f0\ul Bismarck}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. In 1726, he completed the task he had set for himself in 1713 of translating Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.  The 10,000 pounds he earned from the project allowed him to live comfortably and write without having to concern 
himself with the demands of a patron.  FTP name this English writer of "Epistle from Eloisa to Abelard" and The Rape of the Lock. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Alexander }{\f0\ul Pope}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. In 1978, she discovered footprints frozen for 3.5 million years in volcanic mud, which demonstrated that early hominids walked upright much earlier than previously thought.  With her husband she discovered the skull of Proconsul africanus and in 1959 s
he discovered the skull of a pre\_man human\_that her husband dubbed "Zinjanthropus".  FTP name this archaeologist and anthropologist who died Dec. 9, 1996. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Mary }{\f0\ul Leakey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. It can be caused by throat muscles being too relaxed or by the brain failing
 to send out a "breathe" instruction.  Sufferers are not aware of the condition but feel sleepy and underperform the next day.  In older sufferers this condition can be serious, resulting in high blood pressure, heart attacks, or stroke.  FTP what are the
se periods when a person stops breathing for 10 seconds or more during sleep. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: sleep }{\f0\ul apnea}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. Saintly Ellen James, the unwilling inspiration of a radical feminist group, Roberta Muldoon, the transsexual football player, Jenny Fields the mother of 
the character mentioned in the title are all characters in this novel.  FTP name this 1976 John Irving novel. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul World According to Garp}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. This religion does not involve a Creator, but considers all life to be sacred and preaches asceticism.  
Today, it is confined almost entirely to India, in which there are 3 million practitioners, and those of Indian descent.  It arose in the 6th century BC.  FTP what religion was by tradition established by 24 saints, the last being Vardhamana Mahavira? 

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Jainism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7. Born in 1887, he was a wealthy Harvard graduate who embraced communism.  The only American to be buried in the Kremlin, in 1919, he wrote about the Bolshevik Revolution to which he was a witness in 10 Days That Shook the World. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Reed}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. According to legend, the King of Syracuse wanted to find out whether or not a crown he had been given was made of pure gold. This principle was discovered which states that the weight of water displaced by a submerged object equals the upthru
st acting upon it.  FTP name this principle or the Greek mathematician and physicist who discovered it.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Archimedes'}{\f0  principle
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. Because awards make writers "safe, polite, obedient, and sterile", he declined the Pulitzer Prize in Literature.  He 
didn't decline the Nobel Prize in Literature that he won 4 years later though, thus becoming the first American to win it.  FTP who created the small town of Gopher Prairie in his novel Main Street? 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sinclair }{\f0\ul Lewis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. Born in 1829, he illustrate
d the works of Trollope and Tennyson and painted portraits of many of the distinguished men of his day.  Among his paintings include Bubbles, The Blind Girl, and Christ in the Carpenter's Shop, which caused a scandal by its extreme realism.  FTP name this
 English painter who helped found 
\par the Pre\_Raphaelite Brotherhood with Dante Gabriel Rossetti and William Holman Hunt. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sir John Everett }{\f0\ul Millais}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. The Taklimakan Desert and the Altai Mountains lie in the western part of this country.  The Greater Hinggan Mountains and The Lesser Hinggan Mountains lie in the northeastern part of this country.  FTP name this country bordered by Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzs
tan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Vietnam, North Korea, Russia, and Mongolia. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul China}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-5616\li5616\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12. Proposed by a Democratic senator from Illinois, this act effectively repealed the Missouri Compromise of 1820.  Thi
s act left to the voters of each territory the question of whether it would be admitted to the Union as a free state or slave state. FTP name this 1854 act proposed by Stephen Douglas. 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kansas\_Nebraska}{\f0  Act
\par 
\par 13. Named after a Swiss\_Russian chemist, this law states that the amount of heat developed or absorbed in a chemical reaction is fixed, regardless of the route taken.  FTP give another name for the law of constant heat summation. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Hess's}{\f0  law
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. In an 1887 letter to a colleague, he said that all addictions, including his smoking one are substitutes for the "single great habit, the 'primal addiction'" \_
 masturbation.  In 1939, cancer caused by his cigars killed him.  In 1908, Abraham Arden Brill became his translator into English.  So, 
in actuality Brill first coined the english word Id and not this man.  FTP name this psychoanalyst who wrote The Interpretation of Dreams. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sigmund }{\f0\ul Freud}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Born in 1864, this Swedish poet's work is purposely archaic and its basis is rooted in h
is country's folklore and custom.  In 1918, he refused the Nobel Prize in Literature, arguing that his work was unknown outside of Sweden. Among his works include Fridolins visor, Fridolins lustgard, and Hosthorn.  FTP name this Swedish writer posthumousl
y awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1931. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Erik Axel }{\f0\ul Karlfeldt}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. His stories include "contact" and he edited the leading pro journal on planetary research Icarus.  He earned degrees at the U. of Chicago in physics, astronomy, and astrophy
sics, and then went to Harvard to teach and do research.  He moved to Cornell in 1968 and became a tenured professor there in 1971.  FTP name this natural communicator who explained difficult concepts to TV viewers. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Carl }{\f0\ul Sagan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. The people of 
Massachusetts had defied various British policies they considered repressive such as the Stamp Act and quartering of British troops.  Therefore Parliament enacted these measures in March 1774 as an example to the other rebellious colonies. These four meas
ures included The Boston Port Act, the Massachusetts Government Act, the Quartering Act, and the Impartial Administration of Justice Act. FTP give the popular name of these acts also called the Coercive Acts. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Intolerable}{\f0  Acts or Coercive Acts if early
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. This opera follows the career of a wealthy, foolish gentleman that carries him through the pleasure houses of London to the madhouse of Bedlam.  The libretto for this opera was written by Chester Kallman and W. H. Auden.  FTP name this 1951 Igor 
Stravinsky opera that is based on a series of engravings by William Hogarth. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Rake's Progress}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19. His outstanding collection of paintings was sold by his grandson to Catherine the Great and is now in the Hermitage.  A Whig leader, in 1712, he
 was convicted on dubious charges of corruption by the Tory administration.  In 1720, he was called upon to salvage government finances after the South Sea Bubble and was appointed first lord of the treasury and chancellor of the exchequer.  FTP name this
 man regarded as Britain's first Prime Minister. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sir Robert }{\f0\ul Walpole}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. The place refer
red to in the title of this 1770 poem is Lissey, England.  The author dedicated this poem to Sir Joshua Reynolds. In the poem, the author portrays the rural depopulation of the latter half of the 18th century, which he attributes to the increase in luxury
, to foreign trade, and to the cancerous growth of London.  FTP name this poem by Oliver Goldsmith. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Deserted Village}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. He wrote, "For of all sad words of tongue or pen/The saddest are these: "it might have been".  FTP name this New England poet and editor who wrote The Barefoot Boy. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: John Greenleaf }{\f0\ul Whittier}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 22. This congregational clergyman born in England asserted the freedom of the individual to make their own decisions in politics and religion.  He was educated at Cambridge and 
his doctrines were so strongly opposed by Archbishop Laud, that Laud planned to have him silenced, so he fled to Holland.  He stayed there for 3 years until he and his congregation could emigrate to Newtown, Massachusetts.  Called "the most powerful pulpi
t orator among the ministers of New England", he would later move his congregation to Connecticut.  FTP name this man who founded Hartford and who helped write and get passed the Fundamental Orders in his colony of Connecticut. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f0\ul Hooker}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. 
Born in Allahabad, he was educated at home, and his favorite tutor was the theosophist Ferdinand Brooks.  After studying at Cambridge, he returned to India, briefly working in his father's law practice.  He soon became associated with Gandhi and was elect
ed president of the National Congress, a role which got him nine years in jail.  FTP, identify this first prime minister of India. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jawaharlal }{\f0\ul Nehru}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24. He served as second in command during Pizzaro's conquests in Peru, and he supported the Inca e
mperor, Atahualpa.  He returned to Spain with a fortune, and in 1539 he set out on an expedition to explore the Florida region. He landed at Charlotte Harbor, and he spent two years exploring the Southeast region of the U.S., however, he found no gold and
 he was constantly in conflict with the local Native Americans.  FTP name this conquistador who died in 1542 on the banks of his greatest discovery, the Mississippi River. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Hernando }{\f0\ul De Soto}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Georgia Tech
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. For 5 points each answer these questions about a director and his works: 
\par 1.  This actress appeared in }{\f0\ul Pretty Baby}{\f0  as Violet, the young girl brought up in a whorehouse. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Brooke }{\f0\ul Shields}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This actress also appeared in }{\f0\ul Pretty Baby}{\f0  as Hattie, the young girl's mother who is a prostitute and also starred in }{\f0\ul Atlantic City}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Susan }{\f0\ul Sarandon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This 1987 film, a Cesar winner, was based on what happened when the director was in boarding school and concerns a Jewish boy hidden at a boarding school from the Nazis. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Au Revoir Les Enfants}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. Name the director of }{\f0\ul Pretty Baby}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Au Revoir Les Enfants}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Vanya on 42nd Street}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Louis }{\f0\ul Malle}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. Name Louis Malle's second wife an actress on whose TV comedy he made a guest appearance.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Candace }{\f0\ul Bergen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 6. This man promoted Malle to be co\_director of }{\f0\ul Monde du Silence}{\f0 . Years later he called Malle the best underwater cameraman he had ever had. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jacques }{\f0\ul Cousteau}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. FTP each identify these people involved in the Russian Revolution: 
\par 1. On March 15th 1917, he became prime minister of the Provisional Government.  He resigned in July 1917. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Prince Georgy }{\f0\ul Lvov}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. On March 15th 1917, he became minister of justice and unofficial liason to the Petrograd Soviet in the Provisional Government.  He served as prime minister from July 1917 to October 1917. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Alexander }{\f0\ul Kerensky}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. On April 16th, 1917, he arrived in Petrograd after being transported to Russia by Germans inside a sealed train car until he reached the Swedish bo
rder.  He issued the April Theses calling for an overthrow of the Provisional Government and 
\par declared "All power to the Soviets!" 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Vladimir }{\f0\ul Lenin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. For the stated number of points name these Nobel Prize winning women: 
\par 1. 5 pts: She shared the discovery of radium and polonium. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Marie }{\f0\ul Curie}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: For her discovery of mobile genes in the chromosomes of plants, this American won the 1983 Nobel in physiology or medicine. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Barbara }{\f0\ul McClintock}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 15 pts: She was the first American woman to win a Nobel in science. She shared the prize for physiology or medicine with her husband in 1947.  She won the award for co\_
discovering the series of steps by which the human body converts glycogen into glucose and back again to glycogen, a cycle now named after the couple. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Gerty Theresa Radnitz }{\f0\ul Cori}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. FTP each identify these famous firsts in congress: 
\par 1. She was the first woman elected to congress and casted the only vote against declaration of war on Japan after Pearl Harbor. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jeannette }{\f0\ul Rankin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. He was the first black elected to the US Senate and later became President of Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Hiram }{\f0\ul Revels}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. He was the first black elected to the House of Representative. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jefferson }{\f0\ul Long}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. Identify the following Former Soviet Republics given clues FTP each: 
\par 1. Communism Peak lies in the country which borders China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Afghanistan. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tajikistan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Lake Balkhash is in this country which also has access to the Caspian Sea and Aral Sea. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kazakhstan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. It borders Ukraine on the North and East and its capital is Kishinev. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Moldova}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 6. For the stated number of points give the real life identity in Jack Kerouac's life that was portrayed by these characters in his On the Road: 
\par 1. 5 pts: Carlo Marx 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Allen }{\f0\ul Ginsberg}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: Old Bull Lee 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul Burroughs}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 5 pts:  Sal Paradise 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jack }{\f0\ul Kerouac}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. 10 pts: Dean Moriarty 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Neal }{\f0\ul Cassady}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7. Given the function of a hormone, name the hormone FTP each: 
\par 1. In the female, it triggers ovulation and progesterone production.  In the male, it stimulates testosterone production. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul LH}{\f0  or Luteinizing hormone
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. In the male, it stimulates sperm production. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul FSH}{\f0  or Follicle\_stimulating hormone
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. It stimulates contraction of the uterus during labor and milk release in breastfeeding. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Prolactin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. For the stated # of points answer the following questions about a world leader: 
\par 1. 5 pts: Born in 1904, has originally born with the name Xixiang but later changed it to a name meaning "Little Peace". 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Deng}{\f0  Xiaoping
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: While studying in Paris, Deng Xiaoping roomed with this man for a time.  He was premier of China from 1949\_1976. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Chou}{\f0  En\_lai
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 5 pts: Deng Xiaoping participated in this event from 1934\_1935 in which the communists were constantly harried by nationalist forces.  It is also the name of a work by Simone de Beauvoir. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Long March}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
4. 10 pts: Deng Xiaoping broke with Mao Zedong over this campaign to industrialize China.  Launched in 1958, its purpose was to increase agricultural and industrial output by reorganizing the populace into communes. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Great Leap Forward}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  Give the American author of each of these works which contain "Million" in the title for ten points each.  If you need a more popular work, then you will only receive 5 points. 
\par 1. 10: "A Cool Million" \tab \tab 5: "Miss Lonelyhearts" 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Nathanael }{\f0\ul West}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10: "Marco Millions" \tab \tab 5: "Strange Interlude" 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Eugene }{\f0\ul O'Neill}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10: "The Four Million" \tab \tab "Cabbages and Kings" 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul O. Henry}{\f0  (or William Sydney }{\f0\ul Porter}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. 30\_20\_10 identify this faction: 
\par 1. This faction was expelled from Florence in 1266 after more than 10 years of civil war. 
\par 2. Their name was a corruption of the name of an estate belonging to the Hohenstaufen Emperor.  In general, the great noble families adhered to this faction that supported the Holy Roman Empire in the 13th century.  The nobl
es in the more northern districts, especially Pisa, Verona, and Arezzo were inclined toward this faction. 
\par 3. Their opponents were the Guelphs. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ghibellines}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. For the stated number of points identify these terms in physics: 
\par 1. 5 pts: Light acts like a stream of particle like energy packets which are called quanta of light or this. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul photons}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: This phenomenon states that when certain materials absorb light, the light's energy frees electrons from atoms on the material's surface which could form an electric current. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul photoelectric}{\f0  effect
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 15 pts: In this principle, Bohr states: In the limiting case of large quantum numbers, the frequencies and the intensities of radiation calculated from classical the
ory must agree with those of quantum theory. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul correspondence principle}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12. FTP each answer the following about the "Indian Wars" of American history: 
\par 1. In this 1890 North Dakota battle, soldiers massacre 153 Sioux. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Wounded Knee}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Staged in Missouri in 1874, General Sherican wins it after 14 battles. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Red River War}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. In 1863\_1864, the Navaho were defeated in Arizona by troops led by this famous guide. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Kit }{\f0\ul Carson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. FTP each name these tennis players who have not won the Grand Slam of Tennis: 
\par 1. On February 16th, the USTA named the new stadium at the National Tennis Center in New York for this man, no longer living. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f0\ul Ashe}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This Big man led the US Davis Cup team to 7 consecutive victories from 1920\_1926.  By 1930 he had won a record 16 U.S. championships including doubles and mixed doubles play. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Bill }{\f0\ul Tilden}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This aborigine won the women's singles title at Wimbledon in 1971 and 1980.  She also won the French Open in 1971 and the Australian Open from 1974\_1976 and the December one in 1977. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Evonne }{\f0\ul Goolagong}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. For the stated # of points identify the following about a 1957 event: 
\par 1. 10 pts: The Governor called out the National Guard of what state to prevent 9 black students from attending all\_white Central High?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Arkansas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 15 pts: Who was the governor Arkansas who took this action? 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Orval }{\f0\ul Faubus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3. 5 pts: When a federal court compelled Governor Faubus to admit the students, he complied but refused to protect the Little Rock Nine, removing the National Guard and forcing what President to send in the 101st Airborne Division to enforce the court ord
er. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Dwight }{\f0\ul Eisenhower}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. FTP each name these disorders of the mind based on a description: 
\par 1. The sufferer makes involuntary barks, grunts, and muscular jerks, and may have episodes of uncontrollable use of foul language. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tourette's}{\f0  syndrome
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Organic braid disorder characterized by increasing impairment of mental function because of nerve cell degeneration in the brain. It is the most common form of dementia. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Alzheimer's}{\f0  disease
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. It is a factitious disorder in which a person's plausible invention of physical symptoms results in frequent hospitalization and even unnecessary operations. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Munchausen}{\f0  syndrome
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. You'll get an 'A' in Greek mythology if you can identify the following for 5 points each and a 5 point bonus for all correct: 
\par 1. The hunter that surprised Artemis bathing 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Actaeon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The King of Colchis and keeper of the Golden fleece 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Aeetes}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. The father of Theseus 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Aegeus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. The wife of Amphitryon and mother of Hercules by Zeus 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Alcmene}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. The wife of Proteus who tried to make Bellerophon elope with her.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Anteia}{\f0 
\par \page 17. Identify the experimental composers from descriptions of works FTP each: 
\par 1. His }{\f0\ul Roaratorio}{\f0  is an electronic composition consisting of words from }{\f0\ul Finnigan's Wake}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Cage}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Later works of his, such as }{\f0\ul Moses und Aron,}{\f0  were written with 12 tones related only to one another, the so\_called "12\_tone" pieces. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arnold }{\f0\ul Schoenberg}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. After meeting John Cage, he was inspired to write works such as }{\f0\ul Microphone I,}{\f0 
 the score of which contained almost no mention of what music to play, instead consisting only of microphone placement instructions.  Another work, }{\f0\ul Aus den sieben Tagen,}{\f0  consis
ts of instructions for the players to fast silently for four days and then improvise without conscious thought. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Karlheinz }{\f0\ul Stockhausen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. Given a work or works, name the philosopher who penned them FTP each: 
\par 1. The Creative Mind and Mind\_Energy 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Henri }{\f0\ul Bergson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The World as Will and Idea 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f0\ul Schopenhauer}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Dynamics of Faith and The Courage to Be 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Paul }{\f0\ul Tillich}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19. For 10 points each, given works by an English writer that was part of the Marxist circle of the 1930s, name that writer. 
\par 1. }{\f0\ul Homage to Clio}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Sea and the Mirror}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: W.H. }{\f0\ul Auden}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. }{\f0\ul Mr. Norris Changes Trains}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul I Am a Camera}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Christopher }{\f0\ul Isherwood}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. }{\f0\ul The Worm of Death}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Gate}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Magnetic Mountain}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul From Feathers to Iron}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Cecil }{\f0\ul Day\_Lewis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. Given a character from a Herman Hesse work, name the work FTP each: 
\par }\pard \fi-4176\li4176\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 1. Emil Sinclair \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Demian}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Harry Haller \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Steppenwolf}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-4176\li4176\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Josef Knecht \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Magister Ludi}{\f0  or The }{\f0\ul Glass Bead Game}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. Given a description, identify the following religious leaders FTP each: 
\par He wrote }{\f0\ul Confessions}{\f0  around 400 AD 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul St. Augustine}{\f0  of Hippo
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 He was known as the "Apostle of the Indies" and went to Goa, India and later Ceylon and Japan on missionary work. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: St. }{\f0\ul Francis Xavier}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 Living from 264\_340 AD, he was a Roman Christian theologian known as the "Father of Church History" and recorded the chief events in the Christian Church up to 324. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Eusebius}{\f0  of Caesarea
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. For 10 points each, given a character or characters from a Willa Cather work, name the work. 
\par 1. Anton Cuzak, Antonia Shimerda 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul My Antonia}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Alexandra Bergson 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul O Pioneers!}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Claude Wheeler 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul One of Ours}{\f0 
\par 
\par 23. Identify the anthropologist 30\_20\_10: 
\par 30:  Books by him include }{\f0\ul Early Man and the Ocean}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Fatu\_Hiva:  Back to Nature}{\f0 . 
\par 20:  In these and other works, he provides evidence for his theory of cultural diffusion. 
\par 10:  To support this theory, he led the "Ra" and "Kon\_Tiki" boat expeditions. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Thor }{\f0\ul Heyerdahl}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 24. Given works by an 20th c. artist name him FTP each: 
\par 1. Whose Name was Writ in Water and Amityville 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Willem de }{\f0\ul Kooning}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Painted Bronze and Weeping Women 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jasper }{\f0\ul Johns}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Canyon and Monogram 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Robert }{\f0\ul Rauschenberg}{\f0 
\par }}