{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals }{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min53}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min53}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords4065}{\nofchars23176}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws28461}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals }{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000000011}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by George Washington University
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Rooted in Arthur Miller's 'The Price,' it deals with a family's struggle over an old heirloom that evokes unpleasant historical memories of slavery. Boy Willie and Bernice argue
 over how one should appropriately honor ancestors from a past best forgotten. The climatic scene can be described thusly : After an exorcism of a plantation owner's ghost fails, Bernice sings the names carved onto a piano and brings peace to the room. FT
P name this Pulitzer Prize winning play by August Wilson.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Piano Lesson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. Its thin atmosphere's primary component is sulfur dioxide. It's nearly perfectly circular orbit takes approximately 43 hours to complete. With a diameter of about 3,63
0 kilometers, this moon is most notable for being one of the few objects in the solar system to exhibit volcanic activity. FTP identify this moon, the innermost of Jupiter's Galilean satellites.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Io}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  About 300 lines of his poetry remain extant
. Plato claimed him as an ancestor. He first gained prominence by persuading the Athenians to continue fighting a war over Salamis. As leader, his policies included the restriction of debt slavery and the prohibition of the export of foodstuffs during per
iods of famine. FTP identify this Greek statesman elected archon in 594 BC, one of the legendary Seven wise men.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Solon}{\f0  
\par 
\par 4.  To make a really long story short, as the first prelude opens, the Three Norns spin the rope of fate. In Act I, Hagen and 
Gunther hatch a plot which involves the use of a magic potion to separate Siegfried from Brunnhlide. The plot succeeds, and Brunnhilde's Act II revelation of Siegfried's vulnerability precipitates his murder in Act III. Then, literally, all hell brakes lo
ose. I have just summarized the plot of, FTP, what opera, the fourth and final installment in Wagner's 'ring cycle?' 
\par \tab \tab Answer: '}{\f0\ul Gotterdamurung}{\f0 ' or '}{\f0\ul Twilight of the Gods}{\f0 '
\par 
\par 5. A graduate of Trinity College and later a deacon, librarian, and lecturer there, t
his Anglo-Irish bishop of Cloyne is better known for philosophical works such as 1709's 'Toward A New Theory Of Vision.' His philosophy was Locke-influenced Empiricism, as he laid out in 1713's 'Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonius.' FTP identify t
his idealist and immaterialist philosopher, whose credo was 'To be is to be perceived.' 
\par \tab \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul Berkeley}{\f0  (pron. 'Barkley') 
\par 
\par 6. They range in size from 1 millimeter to over 15 meters. None have digestive tracts - all are parasitic, mostly in the d
igestive systems of vertebrates. The general body pattern is bilaterally symmetrical and consists of a head, or scolex, which uses a sucker and hooks to attach to the host, and body segments, known as proglottids, which produce gametes. FTP identify the c
olloquial name of this class of creatures, in phylum Platyhelminthes, class Cestoda.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul tapeworm}{\f0  
\par 
\par 7. Her first novels were fairly conventional, but beginning with 1922's 'Jacob's Room,' she began to experiment with the idea of character and time a
s functions of consciousness. She employed stream-of-consciousness in 'The Waves,' and fantasy in 'Orlando.' FTP identify this member of the Bloomsbury Group, best known for 'Mrs. Dalloway' and 'To The Lighthouse.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Virginia }{\f0\ul Woolf}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. He led the Anglo\_
Egyptian reconquest of the Sudan in 1898 and later served as chief of staff in the Boer War.  As British minister of war from 1914 until drowned on route to Russia in 1916, he carried out a vast expansion of the British army. . FTP who 
is the Earl who was harshly criticized for his tactics in securing Boer submission? 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Horatio Herbert }{\f0\ul Kitchener}{\f0 , 1st Earl Kitchener
\par 
\par 9. When the title character was asked why he cut off the heads of parking meters, he replied, simply, with 'Small 
town. Not much to do.' The story of an inmate in a Southern prison camp, this 1967 film featured George Kennedy and Strother Martin, the latter of whom uttered the famous line 'What we've got here is failure to communicate.' Identify this film classic, st
arring Paul Newman as Lucas Jackson. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: '}{\f0\ul Cool Hand Luke}{\f0 ' 
\par \page 10. One of the original professors at Clark University, he was a professor of geography at the University of Berlin when he emigrated to the U.S. in 1886. He also worked for 'Science' magazi
ne but is best known for his work at Columbia University. His influence as both a teacher and practitioner, mostly regarding the Kwakiutl (kwak-ee-OO-tl) tribe of British Columbia, of anthropology remains. FTP identify this author of 'The Mind of Primitiv
e Man' and 'Race, Language, and Culture,' whom many consider to be the founder of modern anthropology.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: Franz }{\f0\ul Boas}{\f0  
\par 
\par 11. Before the invention of this language, operating systems were generally written in machine code or, at best, assembly languag
e. Usually considered a high-level language, it can nonetheless directly handle addresses and bits. Dennis Ritchie, while working on the development of UNIX, developed it in 1972 for AT&T. FTP identify this computer language, whose name in full can be see
n on the hats of Bears fans everywhere.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul C}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12. He has been an especially controversial figure since he gave a speech at Pat Robertson's Regents University, and since the press began to cover his past involvements with the tobacco industry, both 
of which cast doubts on his impartiality. Now he he's headed off to be a law school dean at Pepperdine. FTP, name this political figure of note, who took over in 1994 for Robert Fiske as Special Prosecutor in the Whitewater investigation.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Kenneth }{\f0\ul Starr}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. He trained under Robert Henri in his early life as a painter, but after 1923 spent most of his life as a commercial illustrator. He painted landscapes like 'Cape Cod Afternoon' and 'Road in Maine' but is best known for streetscapes. Often compa
red to Thomas Eakins, he work is said to symbolize the stagnation of town life. FTP identify this American artist, creator of 'Sunday Morning' and 'The Nighthawks.' 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Edward }{\f0\ul Hopper}{\f0  
\par 
\par 14.  Key themes of his work include a devotion to Marxism, which
 brought him scorn in the West, and the shattering of dramatic convention, particularly the theatrical illusion. He wrote poems, novels, and even operas, but he's best known for theatrical works, the first of which was 1923's 'Baal.' FTP identify this aut
hor of 'The Caucasian Chalk Circle' and 'Mother Courage And Her Children.' 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Bertolt }{\f0\ul Brecht}{\f0  
\par 
\par 15. As Attorney General, he was a prosecutor in the treason trial of Aaron Burr and his attempts to persuade the Supreme Court to strike state impediments to interstate commerce in }{\f0\ul Gibbons v. Ogden}{\f0 
 proved successful. He's more famous for being a third-party candidate for President, though he only won one state, Vermont, and as being the first candidate to be nominated by a convention. FTP identify this 1832
 Presidential candidate for the Anti-Masonic Party.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul Wirt}{\f0  
\par 
\par 16.  Among his earliest discoveries was racemic acid, an erantiomorph of tartaric acid. He taught at Strasbourg and Lille and in 1862 was elected to the Academy of Sciences. He 
helped disprove abiogenesis. Consumers of such disparate products as silk, mutton, beer, and wine are grateful to his legacy. FTP identify this biologist, named to the French Academy in 1882, best known for the process bearing his name, which makes sure y
our milk is safe to drink.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: Louis }{\f0\ul Pasteur}{\f0  
\par 
\par 17. Ornamented with a garland of skills and a girdle of severed hands, she is otherwise depicted unclothed. Often associated with such deities as Durga and Shiva, legend has it she first developed a tas
te for blood by drinking the blood of the demon Raktavija. Goats are sacrificed daily at her temples and her name is from the Sanskrit for 'black.' FTP identify this grotesque, destructive Hindu goddess.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kali}{\f0  
\par 
\par 18. Originating in the area known as Kangaba, this empire was born when Sandiata overthrew the Sugu chief Sumanguru. Soon their control over trade and mineral wealth spread to the entire Niger valley. FTP identify this medieval West African empire, most o
ften associated with the emperor Mansa
\par Musa, with its capital at Timbuktu.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Mali}{\f0  
\par 
\par 19. They are stable in a vacuum, but quickly produce gamma radiation in the presence of electrons. Conceived to account for otherwise inscrutable negative energy s
tates of an electron predicted by the Relativistic Electron Theory of Paul Dirac, Carl Anderson first discovered them while using a cloud chamber to study cosmic rays. FTP identify these antimatter particles.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul positrons}{\f0  or Positive Electrons
\par \page 20
. The Hindu word 'shantih,' repeated three times, closes this poem. A curious end to a rather curious poem. Allusions to Sanskrit mythology as well as to characters from Greek myth such as Tiresias, abound. It is divided into five sections ; The Burial of
 the Dead, A Game Of Chess, The Fire Sermon, Death By Water, and What The Thunder Said. FTP identify this 1924 work of T.S. Eliot, which opens with the line 'April is the cruelest month.' 
\par \tab \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Waste Land}{\f0  
\par 
\par 21. It's course runs over 3,000 miles, or
iginating in a high plateau at the confluence of the Grande and Paranaiba Rivers. Tributaries include the Tiete and the Salado. Notable features include Iguacu Falls and the large Itiapu dam complex. Forming part of the Brazil-Paraguay border, it joins th
e Uruguay River to form the Rio de la Plata. FTP identify this second-longest South American river.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Parana}{\f0  River 
\par 
\par 
\par 23. Three characters alienated from modern society, Claire, Andy, and Dag, take up residence in Palm Springs ; they have been tak
en by many cultural observers to symbolize the ennui common to The book's title, derived from the last chapter of Paul Fussell's sociological work 'Class,' has become a popular buzzword to refer to a large subgroup of Americans. FTP identify this 1991 wor
k of Douglas Coupland. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Generation X}{\f0  
\par 
\par 24. First isolated in 1803 by William Wollaston, it is most often used in concert with platinum in crucibles and thermocouples. This element has only one stable isotope, 103. FTP, identify this element, which
 is named, due to the tendency of its compound to be reddish in color, after the Greek word for rose, with atomic number 45.  
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul rhodium}{\f0  
\par 
\par This seat of Brown County is located at the mouth of the Fox River and is the northern terminus of Interstate
 43. Wholesale distribution, timber, and dairy products are the main industries here. There are almost 200 larger cities in the United States, but most of them don't have their own professional sports franchise. FTP identify this city of 96,000 people, ma
ny of whom spend eight or more Sundays a year 'packing' Lambeau Field.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Green Bay}{\f0 , Wisconsin 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par Like Phil Gramm, this Texas Republican was a former Democrat, and, like Gramm 20 years later, he was criticized for trying to buy the Republican nominatio
n for President in 1976. Like Gramm, his effort was unsuccessful. While still a Democrat, he served in the Nixon cabinet, specifically as Treasury Secretary. But his place in history was in fact secured by where he was sitting on November 23, 1963. FTP id
entify this former Texas governor, who was nearly assassinated along with President
\par Kennedy. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Connally}{\f0  
\par 
\par He supposedly owns one of the largest videotape collections of American movies in the entire world, even though the nation he leads is largely isolated from American culture. One of America's least favorite dictators, he has nonetheless secured millions o
f dollars in famine relief for his country. Though his father preceded him, his is not technically a dynastic title, Jesse Helms' mispronunciations notwithstanding. FTP identify this dictator of North Korea. 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kim Jong Il}{\f0   (prompt on 'Kim') 
\par 
\par Each 
one of these is accompanied by an isnad, and explanation of the chain of transmission of these stories. They had surprisingly little influence on Islamic law, but are today the main source for the study of doctrinal development during the first few centur
ies of Islam. FTP identify these stories, based on traditions supposedly founded by the Prophet Muhammed, whose name is from the Arabic for 'news' or 'story.' 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul hadith}{\f0  
\par \page Galaxies of all possible ages are intermingled. At the same rate old stars beco
me unobservable due to increased distance and velocity of recission, new stars are formed. Sir James Jeans first postulated this idea, and it became popular in the late 1940's thanks to Herman Bondi, Thomas Gold, and Fred Hoyle. Evidence of the existence 
of cosmic background radiation has resulted in this notion becoming unfashionable. FTP give the name for this cosmological theory, which says that the universe, as it expands, preserves the same mean density.  
\par \tab \tab A:}{\f0\ul steady-state}{\f0  theory 
\par 
\par Relatives ensured th
e designation of heir apparent to the throne of this 11th son of Ching-ti. His early reign was under the moderating influences of court officials, but his foreign policy turned aggressive after the attack on the Hsing-nu in 133 BCE. The Chinese establishe
d hegemony over territory as far south as present-day Vietnam and as far west as the city of Fergana during his rule. FTP identify this famous Han emperor, perhaps best known for his adoption of Confucianism as the state religion of the Chinese Empire. 

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Wu Ti}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Liu Che}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regional
\par Questions by  George Washington University 
\par }{\f0  
\par 1. Sure you ACFers know your Civil War, but what do you know about more short-lived revolts in early American history? Identify these rebellions, all named after the
ir leaders, for the stated number of points. 5 : This 18th Century revolt of debt-ridden farmers in Massachusetts may have precipitated the Constitutional convention.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Shay's Rebellion}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0   10 : This 19th Century rebellion involved an 1842 effort led by
\par an ex-legislator to replace the plutocratic government of Rhode Island with one that had universal manhood suffrage. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Dorr's Rebellion}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0   15 : This 17th Century uprising against the proprietary
\par government of North Carolina was in protest of attempts to enforce the Navigation Acts.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Culpepper's Rebellion}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. Given the title of a 20-th Century author's memoir, identify him for 10 points each. If you need another work by the author, you get 5 points.
\par 1. 10 : 'The Story of a Novel'\tab 5 : 'Of Time And The River'
\par \tab \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f0\ul Wolfe}{\f0   
\par 2. 10 : 'Arrow in the Blue' \tab 5 : 'Darkness at Noon'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f0\ul Koestler}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10 : 'Speak, Memory' \tab \tab 5: 'Lolita'
\par \tab \tab Answer: Vladimir }{\f0\ul Nabokov}{\f0  
\par 
\par 3. Identify these Latin phrases employed in tort law, FTP each.  
\par 1. From the Latin for 'the thing speaks for itself,' it is the doctrine that allows tort plaintiffs to go forward with claims despite the lack of availability of conclusive evidence. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul res ipsa loquitur}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Loosely translated as 'let the higher one answer,' this rule allows a tort plaintiff to sue an employer for the actions of employees while on the job. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul respondeat superior}{\f0   
\par }\pard \fi-10656\li10656\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Meaning 'let the buyer beware,' this doctrine
 has largely been eroded by notions of implied warranty. Answer:  }{\f0\ul caveat emptor}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. Identify the following doctrines condemned as heretical by the early Christian church for 15 points each. 
\par 1. Espoused by an early archbishop of Constantinople from which 
it derived its name, it taught that the divine and human Persons of Jesus Christ were distinct and separate from one another, and thus the Virgin Mary could only be called 'Mother of Christ,' because the prevailing title 'Mother of God' wrongly attributed
 Christ's divine nature to her. It was condemned as heresy by the Council of Ephesus in 431 AD. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Nestorianism }{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This doctrine held that the person of Christ contained only a divine nature, in contrast to accepted teaching that His nature was at o
nce human and divine. The doctrine was addressed by both the Councils of Ephesus and Chalcedon, and was finally and fully condemned by the Third Council of Constantinople in 680-681, but is held today by the Abyssinian, Armenian, Coptic, and Jacobite chur
ches. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Monophysitism}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 5. Given an excerpt of a Shakespearean title character talking about himself, identify him, for 10 points each.  
\par 1.  'I am a man more sinned against than sinning.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul King Lear}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  'When the wind is southerly, I can tell a hawk from a handsaw.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Hamlet}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 'I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Henry V}{\f0  (note : he says this line while in disguise)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. Answer these questions about the Second Punic War for the stated number of points. 
\par 15 : The war began in 219 BCE when Carthaginian troops under Hannibal attacked this Spanish port city friendly to Rome.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Saguntum}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 10 : Named for the lake on which it was fought, this Carthaginian victory of 217 BCE meant the end of Gaius Flaminius, and made  possible Hannibal's later victory at Cannae.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Trasimene}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5 : This Roman general, with the help of Masinissa, finally defeated Hannibal at Zama. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Publius Cornelius }{\f0\ul Scipio Africanus}{\f0  Major or the Elder 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7. Identify these endocrine glands, FTP each. 
\par 1. Used as a photoreceptor by some reptiles, it does little in the human body. It does, however, secrete melatonin. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Pineal}{\f0  Gland or Body
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. When the secretions of this gland are removed, Simmond's Disease results, which has a wide variety of symptoms, including dwarfism and hypoglycemia and sometimes sterility.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Pituitary}{\f0  Gland 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. These structures found within the pancreas secrete insulin.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Islets of Langerhan}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  Answer these questions about Premiers of Quebec, FTP each. 
\par 1. The first head of the Parti Quebecois, he was Premier of Quebec from 1976-1985. He sponsored a 1980 sovereignty referendum that failed.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Rene }{\f0\ul Levesque}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Another member of the PQ, he was elected Premier in 1994 but resigned after a 1995 referendum on secession failed narrowly.\tab Answer: Jacques }{\f0\ul Parizeau}{\f0  
\par 3. Parizeau ousted this member of the Liberal Party in the 1994 elections, who had the disadvantage of a very English and very generic surname.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Daniel }{\f0\ul Johnson}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. 30-20-10-5 Name the author from a list of works. 
\par 1. The novels 'Hans of Iceland' and 'The Toilers of the Sea' 
\par 2. The novels 'The Last Days of the Condemned' and 'Ninety-Three'  
\par 3. The history 'Histoire d'un Crime,' an account of the coup of Napoleon III 
\par 4. The novel 'Les Miserables'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Victor }{\f0\ul Hugo}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. For the stated number of points, answer these questions about everyone's favorite deity : Odin!
\par 1. 10 pts: Odin brought the sacred mead of poetry to the gods. This sacred mead was brewed from the blood of which god?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Kvasir}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 points: This was the name of Odin's magical horse.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Sleipnir}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 5 pts each: According to the 'Prose Edda' Odin had two younger brothers.  Name them.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Vili}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Ve}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. Identify these classes of organic compounds, FTP each. 
\par 1.. In this class of compounds, a carbon atom is bonded to an oxygen atom with a double bond and to a hydroxyl group with a single bond. Examples include acetic acid and formic acid. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul carboxylic acid}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This is an aromatic alcohol, for example benzene attached to an -OH  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul phenol}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Combined with water, they yield an acid, usually carboxylic acid, and an alcohol.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul ester}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12. 30-20-10 Name the artist from works.  
\par 1.'The Rich Old Man From The Parable' and 'Landscape With A Stone Bridge' 
\par 2. The Music Party,' and 'Joseph Accursed by Potiphar's Wife' 
\par 3. 'The Company of Frans Banning Cocq Preparing To March,' known colloquially as 'The Night Watch' 
\par   Answer: }{\f0\ul Rembrandt}{\f0  van Rijn 
\par 
\par 13. Given the European War and the date, identify the treaty that ended that war. And none of the answers are 'Paris.' 
\par 1. War of the League of Augsburg, 1697  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f0\ul Ryswick}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Prusso-Danish or Schleswig-Holstein War, 1864 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f0\ul Vienna}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Russo-Turkish War, 1867  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f0\ul San Stefano}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. Identify the Canadian province (eh!) from the clues, 30-20-10.  
\par 1.It's provincial flower, the Western red lily, is pictured on it's otherwise yellow-and-green flag. 
\par 2. Notable events in its history include the Riel rebellion of 1885 and the election of North America's first avowedly socialist government above the municipal level in 1944. The New Democratic Party still does well in elections here.  
\par 3. This landlocked Canadian province, home to about 1,000,000 people, is the only one whose boundaries are wholly artificial.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Saskatchewan}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Imagine hypothetical 12-team, full round robin, ACF Regional Tournaments where the following scenarios happen. Assume additional games are not needed for tiebreakers. Answer these questions for 15 points each.
\par   1. At Mid-Atlantic Regionals, the team from the University of the District of Columbia goes 0-11. Maryland's 'F' team beats UDC but loses all their other games. Much to their coll
ective shock, George Washington makes the two-team final, with the worst possible record for a finals team. What was GW's record in round robin play?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 6-5}{\f0  (Assume one team goes 11-0. All other teams besides the 11-0 team, Maryland F, and UDC could possibly be 6-5.)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
2. Meanwhile, out West, they decide on a four-team playoff. Much to its surprise, Stanford's 'B' team makes the semifinals with the worst record possible for any playoff team. What was Stanford B's record in round robin play? 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 4-7}{\f0  (The top three teams only lose to each other ; everyone's record could possibly be 4-7.) 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  30-20-10 Identify the composer from the clues.  
\par 1. He won Honorable Mention at the Chopin International Competition for Pianists in 1927, but tended only to perform his own compositions in public. 
\par 2. His first opera, 'The Nose,' was based on the novel by Nikolay Gogol.
\par 3. Known for the Mahleresque Fifth Symphony and his Piano Trio of 1944, he became the undisputed king of Soviet music after the 1953 death of Sergei Prokofiev.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Dmitry }{\f0\ul Shostakovich}{\f0  
\par 
\par 17. Identify these 20th Century U.S. labor laws, FTP each. 
\par 1. This 1932 law invalidated all 'yellow-dog contracts,' promises by employees not to join unions.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Norris-LaGuardia}{\f0  Act 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This law, also known as the 'Labor-Management Act of 1949,' passed over President Truman's veto, outlawed closed-shops and required loyalty oaths for union bosses.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Taft-Hartley}{\f0  Act 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This 1959 law outlawed unions' use of secondary boycotts.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Landrum-Griffin}{\f0  Act
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. Identify these creatures of Greek mythology from the morbid clues, FTP each. 
\par 1. This many-eyed man was slain by Hermes as he guarded Io for Hera.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Argus}{\f0  Panoples 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This 100-headed dragon, birthed by Gaea to help the Titans, was killed by Zeus' thunderbolt.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Typhoeus}{\f0  or Typhon
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This female snakelike creature, who frequently mated with Typhoeus or Typhon, was killed by Argus Panoples while napping. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Echidna}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 19. Given the Zodiac constellation, give the common name for the brightest star in that constellation, 5 points each with a 5 point bonus for all five.  
\par }\pard \fi-2736\li2736\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 1. Virgo\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Spica}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Scorpio  \tab \tab \tab Answer: Antares 
\par }\pard \fi-2736\li2736\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Taurus \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Aldebaran}{\f0  
\par 4. Leo \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Regulus}{\f0  
\par 5. Gmini \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Pollux}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0  
\par 20. 30-20-10 Identify the playwright from a list of works. 
\par 1. 'Pizarro' and 'The Duenna' 
\par 2. 'St. Patrick's Day' and 'The Critic'
\par 3.  'The School For Scandal' and 'The Rivals'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Richard Brinsley }{\f0\ul Sheridan}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. For five points each, and a five point bonus for all five, name the five men who have received 1996 Academy Award nominations for Best Director.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer :  Joel }{\f0\ul Coen}{\f0  ('Fargo'), Milos }{\f0\ul Forman}{\f0  ('The People vs. Larry Flynt'), Scott }{\f0\ul Hicks}{\f0  ('Shine'), Mike 
Leigh ('Secrets and Lies'), Anthony }{\f0\ul Minghella}{\f0  ('The English Patient') 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. Given the work of philosophy, name the author, 5 points each. 
\par 1. 'Being and Time
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Martin }{\f0\ul Heidegger}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 'Being and Nothingness'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jean-Paul }{\f0\ul Sartre}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 'The Concept of Dread'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Soren }{\f0\ul Kierkegaard}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. 'The Logic of Scientific Discovery'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Karl }{\f0\ul Popper}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. 'On the Genealogy of Morals'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Fredrich }{\f0\ul Nietszche}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 6. 'The World As Will And Idea'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f0\ul Schopenhauer}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. Identify these ancient cities of the Fertile Crescent FTP each.  
\par 1. At this city, located in modern Syria on the Orontes River, the
\par Hittites under Muwatallis fought the Egyptians under Ramses II in 1299 BCE.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kadesh}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The first known law codes, dating from around 2400 BCE, were found in this trading city, whose ruins are near present-day Tall Mardikh, Syria.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ebla}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Located on the Tigris River question opposite modern-day Mosul, Iraq, it's probably the best answer to the immortal question 'What is the capital of Assy
ria?' since it was the location of the famous palace of Ashurbanipal. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Nineveh}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24. Answer these questions about chlorophyll or photosynthesis for the stated number of points. 
\par 1. The chlorophyll molecule is built around a single atom of what metallic element?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul magnesium}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Cholophyll can be found in what membranous structures consisting of proteins and lipids found wrapped within the chloroplasts?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul lamellae}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.In the enzymatic or 'dark' reaction of photosynthesis, ribulose biphosphate (RuBP) combines with carbon dioxide (CO2) to form what chemical? 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul phosphoglycerate}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul PGA}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 30-20-10-5 Identify the poet from the lines.  
\par 30 : 'My soul has grown deep like the rivers.'
\par 20 : 'Life for me ain't been no crystal stair.' 
\par 10 : 'Nobody'll dare say to me 'eat in the kitchen''  
\par 5 : 'Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun?' 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Langston }{\f0\ul Hughes}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page Answer these questions about key figures in Italy's Risorgiomento, FTP each. 
\par 1. This former Carbonari founded the Young Italy movement.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Giuseppe }{\f0\ul Mazzini}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Also a member of Young Italy, he led an 1831 uprising in Milan and was an organizer of the 1848 Sicilian revolt.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Niccola }{\f0\ul Fabrizi}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. He was Pope during this period, and grew to oppose Italian unification. His papacy was the longest in modern times.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Pius IX 
\par 
\par 28. Identify the terms from stock market lingo for 10 points each.  a.
\par This two-word term refers to an amount of a security that is less than the normal unit of trading for that security, usually 100 shares of stock or 5 bonds.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Odd Lot}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 b. This term refers to the limited power of attorney from a shareholder authorizing another shareholder to vote on stockholder issues according to the first stockholders' instructions. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Proxy}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 This term refers to a certifica
te provided by an approved bank that guarantees that the indicated securities are on deposit at that bank. An investor who writes a call option and can present this kind of agreement is considered covered and does not need to meet margin requirements.

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab }{\f0\ul Answer: scrow}{\f0  Agreement 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 29. Name the Catholic saint, 30-20-10:
\par 30: According to legend, the Devil himself once revealed to this saint that if there were three such men as he alive at the same time, the Devil's kingdom would be destroyed. 
\par 20: Just four years after his canonization in 1925, Pope Pius XI named him Patron Saint of Parish Priests, and he was the focus of Pope John Paul II's annual Holy Thursday letter to priests in 1986. 
\par 10: At the time of his death in 1859, over 100,000 people a year visited his parish church in Ars, France, where he would often hear confessions up to 18 hours a day.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: St. John }{\f0\ul Vianney}{\f0  (prompt on }{\f0\ul Cure d'Ars}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Cure of Ars}{\f0  given on
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 30. Name the element, 30-20-10:
\par 30: As it has the greatest known cross-section, or stopping power, for neutrons of any element, it is used as a component of nuclear reactor control rods, as well as in electronic apparatuses such as capacitors and masers.
\par 20: First separated from other rare earth elements in 1880 by Swiss chemist Jean de Marignac, it occurs with them in many minerals, such as monazite, and is 41st in order of abundance in the earth's crust. 
\par 10: A silvery white metallic element, its atomic weight is 157.25 and its atomic number is 64.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul gadolinium}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par  
\par }}