{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3471}{\nofchars19787}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws24299}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000616400}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by University of Illinois
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  Because many people believed that he had been bludgeoned to death, his body was exhumed in the 17th century, but no marks of violence were seen.   Henry IV claimed that he starved himself to dea
th in shame, but more reliable records claim that his captors starved him death and that he was forced to tear off and eat his own skin.  For ten points name this last of the Plantagenet kings, who was housed in Pontefract Castle while the Lancastrians us
urped his throne.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Richard II}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.   'According to our ideas, buying and selling is essentially anti-social in all its tendencies.  It is an education in self-seeking at the expense of others, and no society whose citizens are trained in such a scho
ol can possibly rise above a very low grade of civilization.", Dr. Leete explains to Julian West after he has awoken in the year 2000 after falling asleep in 1887.  For ten points name this utopian novel set in Boston by Edward Bellamy.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Looking Backward}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  This theory works perfectly, except for the fact that it predicts an infinite mass,
 charge and energy for the electron because it is surrounded by a swarm of virtual particles.  To correct it, physicists renormalize it, or divide the infinities by infinity to produce the measured answers.  For ten points name this theory formulated by T
omonaga, Schwinger and Feynman, which explains electromagnetic interactions in quantum terms, and which is abbreviated QED.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul  Quantum electrodynamics}{\f0   (pompt on early }{\f0\ul QED)}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  The title character of this opera is the son of Gamuret and Herzeleide a
nd is also known as Falparsi or the Innocent Fool.  Ordered by the composer never to be performed anywhere but the Bayreuth theater, this opera tells of the struggle for the Holy Grail between Klingsor and Amfortas.  For ten points name this Richard Wagne
r opera, whose title character is the father of Lohengrin.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Parsifal}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  First, he was shipwrecked while serving as Surgeon of the }{\f0\ul Antelope}{\f0 , second, he was left on shore while leading a party looking for water from the }{\f0\ul HMS Adventure}{\f0 .  Next, while serving as Surgeon of }{\f0\ul the HMS Hopewell
}{\f0 , he was captured by pirates and set adrift, and finally, while captaining the }{\f0\ul Adventure}{\f0 , he was set ashore by his mutinous crew.  For ten points name this title character who met mathematicians, horses, yahoos and Lil
liputians, in his travels as recorded by Jonathan Swift.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Lemuel }{\f0\ul Gulliver}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6.  After th
e sacrifice of numerous goats and a dog, male youths smeared the sacrificial blood on their bodies and ran around Rome with a strip of goat flesh, with which they struck women to make them fertile.  Performed on February 15 in honor of Faunus, worshipers 
gathered around a cave on the Palatine Hill where Romulus and Remus were supposedly suckled by a she-wolf.  For ten points name this Roman festival mentioned in the opening lines of Julius Caesar, which is named after the she-wolf.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Lupercalia}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Lupercal}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  Although the work he did in lunar and planetary formation which he detailed in the }{\f0\ul book The Planets: Their Origin and Development}{\f0 
 is considered highly influential, he is best known for work in chemistry.  As Director of  War Research for the At
omic Bomb Project at Columbia, he worked on purifying U-235 and earlier had been awarded the 1934 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.  For ten points name this Indiana-born scientist best known for isolating heavy water and discovering deuterium.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Harold }{\f0\ul Urey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  Opened by General Gronau's attack on the leading elements of General Maunoury's 6th Army, some of its sub-battles include Ourcq, Two Morins and the Gap.  It was Sir John French's miracle, when he marched the British Expeditionary Force into the gap 
between Generals Kluck's and von Bulow's armies, which forced the Germans to abandon the Schlieffen-Moltke plan and halt their advance on Paris.  For ten points name this World War One battle, which lasted from September 5-12, 1914.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  1}{\f0\super s}{\f0 t Battle of the }{\f0\ul Marne}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  In 1841, one of this man's assistants, Andre Le Fevre, was arrested for trying to sell the first pornographic photograph in history, which he claimed was a reenactment of a mythological scene.  In his most famous invention, a silver-plated 
sheet is sensitized by iodine vapor and after its exposure, is developed by passing it over heated mercury.  For ten points name this French inventor and painter, who along with Joseph Niepce, devised an early form of the camera.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Louis Jacques Mande }{\f0\ul Daguerre}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 
10.  Dying in 1928, his ashes are located in Poet's Corner, while his heart is buried at Stinsford with his first wife Emma Gifford.  Convinced by his wife to give up architecture and devote himself to novels, some of his lesser known works include }{
\f0\ul Vestiges of an Old Flame}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Hand of Ethelberta}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul A Laodicean}{\f0 .  For ten points name this British author of }{\f0\ul Desperate Remedies}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Trumpet-Major}{\f0  }{\f0\ul and Jude the Obscure}{
\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f0\ul Hardy}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  The name is the same.  The Northern is formed by th
e union of the Sukhona and Pug Rivers, and after traveling 500 miles, it flows into the White Sea at Archangel.  The Western, also known as the Daugava, rises in the Valdai Hills and flows for 650 miles before entering into the Gulf of Riga at Riga.  For 
ten points name these two Russian rivers.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Dvina}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12.  Opinionated and irascible, hence his nickname 'Vinegar Joe', he spent much of his career as a language instructor at West Point.  Present at the Tokyo surrender ceremony, he had been made commander of Army Ground Forces and of the 10th Army at the in
sistence of Chang Kai-skek, who wanted him removed from his post as commanding general of Army forces in the China-Burma-India Theater.  For ten points name this American general, who is one of the subjects of a Barbara Tuchmann work.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Joseph Warren }{\f0\ul Stilwell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  Tracing its origins back to Pyrrho of Elis, whose followers held an extreme view, the Academic or moderate branch of this school of thought was founded by Arcesilaus and its practitioners have included Gorgias, Protagoras, Descartes, Hume a
nd Santayana.  For ten points name this school of philosophic thought, which one of its followers summed up as 'Nothing is; or if it is, it cannot be known', which thus casts doubt on the possibilities of human knowledge.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Skepticism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  While at
tending Lafayette College which he flunked out of after a semester, he turned down a contract offer from professional baseball team, then went to Syracuse, which he also flunked out of.  After turning to a career in journalism, including the coverage of t
he Spanish-American War, he began to publish his works, including a collection known as the }{\f0\ul Whilomville Stories}{\f0 , the best known of which is 'The Monster.'  For ten points name this American author who also wrote }{\f0\ul War is Kind}{\f0 , 
}{\f0\ul The Open Boat}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Maggie}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Stephen }{\f0\ul Crane}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15.  The last four years of his life were served in the British Parliament. .  He made a  fortune in the stock market by his mid-20s, and would live off the proceeds while he wrote }{\f0\ul The High Price of Bullion}{\f0  }{\f0\ul 
and A Proof of the Depreciation of Bank Notes}{\f0 .  His labor theory of value stated that wages are determined by the price of food, and therefore labor determines valueFor ten points name this British economist who is best known for his }{\f0\ul 
Principles of Political Economy and Taxation}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: David }{\f0\ul Ricardo}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  Among the things his mother Blanche of Castile taught him and which he practiced were to remain faithful to his wife Margaret, to kiss lepers, to wear a shirt of rough hair next to his skin which caused constant itching, and to dine w
ith beggars who often smelled so bad that all his attendants and guards were driven out of the room.  For ten points name this 13}{\f0\super t}{\f0 
h century French Capetian king, who was canonized for such acts as these, as well as leading the Seventh and Eighth Crusades.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Saint Louis}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Louis IX}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17.  The subject of the first ever paper to appear in the journal }{\f0\ul Genetics}{\f0 , this phenomenon was proved by the 1916 work of Calvin Bridges and the 1921 efforts of Lydia Morgan, both of whom were studying eye color in fruit 
flies.  For ten points name this genetic mistake, which causes Patau's, Turner's and Down's syndromes, and which is the failure of chromatids to properly separate during meiosis, thus yielding abnormal numbers of chromosomes in a cell.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Nondisjunction}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18.  This theory states that individual terms or phenomena can only be understood in relation to other elements of the same system, and that each system is built up using a limited set of contrasts.  One school of this thought believes these systems a
re caused by innate characteristics of the human mind, while another believes that they are the result of the limitations imposed by verbal communication.  For ten points name this theory, which attempts to explain the general properties of cultural organ
ization, put forth by such men as Ferdinand de Saussure and Claude Levi-Strauss.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Structuralism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 19. In revenge for being forced to marry, her mother burned down the family mansion just after the insurance ran out.  Her father, the Count, was then  
forced to borrow money from the local bricklayer, who was his wife's lover.  This family hatred was passed down to the title character, who the author calls a 'half-woman man-hater', but in the end, she slits her throat when ordered to do so by her lover,
 the Count's valet.  For ten points name this woman created by August Strindberg.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Miss Julie}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. His work was originally published in the }{\f0\ul Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Science}{\f0 , but received little attention until Ostwald published  a 
German translation under the title "Thermodynamic Studies", and the Yale Press put out the volume, }{\f0\ul Elementary Principles in Statistical Mechanics}{\f0 
.  For ten points name this American scientist whose work led him to be  honored by having the free energy quantity H minus TS named after him.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Josiah Willard }{\f0\ul Gibbs}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  Based upon James Bellah's stories }{\f0\ul War Party}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Big Hunt}{\f0 , this movie begins with Custer's defeat at Little Bighorn.  Although it features a romance between John Agar and Joanne Dru, t
he main plot concerns cavalry Captain Nathan Brittles, who is to retire until he hears that an Indian war is about to break out.  The middle movie of John Ford's cavalry trilogy, it precedes }{\f0\ul Rio Grande}{\f0  and succeeds }{\f0\ul Fort Apache}{
\f0 .  For ten points name this 1949 movie featuring John Wayne.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul She Wore a Yellow Ribbon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  While sitting in a French military prison, he began writing, producing such works as }{\f0\ul The Confederacy}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Provok'd Wife}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Relapse}{\f0 
.  After his return to England, he turned to architecture, building Seaton Delaval, the Clarendon Building and Castle Howard, usually in partnership with Nicholas Hawksmoor.  For ten points name this British architect appointed comptroller of the royal wo
rks in 1714, who is best known for designing Blenheim Palace.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sir John }{\f0\ul Vanbrugh}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23.  When the censor insisted that this man remove the Cathedral scene from his newest opera, the director of the opera company brought in an Apostolic Nuncio to view 
it.  The Nuncio liked it so much that he told the censor that the Catholic church would like more scenes like that.  The censor was never told that the Nuncio was blind.  For ten points name the French composer whose 1859 opera }{\f0\ul Faust}{\f0 
 is now a part of the standard repertoire.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Charles }{\f0\ul Gounod}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24.  It was proposed in the fifth century as a means of ending a plague.  Given by the Oracle of Delos in the the people were supposed to double the cube-shaped altar of their god, a problem proved to be impossi
ble using group theory in the 19th century.  For ten points name this classical geometric problem, in which a ube's volume is to be doubled using only a compass and straightedge.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Delian problem}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Duplication of the cube}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by University of Illinois
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  Identify the following works of world literature from their first lines for ten points each.
\par 1.  'Okonkwo was well known throughout the nine villages and even beyond.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Things Fall Apart}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  'On the field of Truth, on the battle-field of life, what came to pass, Sanjaya, when my sons and their warriors faced those of my brother Pandu?'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Bhagavad Gita}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  'The small town of Verrieres may be regarded as one of the prettiest in the Franche-Comte.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Red and the Black}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Le Rouge et le Noir}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  Identify the following subatomic particles from a description for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5:  They come in three colors and six different varieties.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul quarks}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  15:  In 1976, Burton Richter and Samuel Ting were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for their discovery of this heavy meson which is made of a charm and an anticharm quark.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul J-psi}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Psi}{\f0  particle
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  Also known as the intermediate vector boson, this particle which has positive and negative versions is the transmitter of the weak force along with the Z particle.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul W}{\f0  particle
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  Answer the following questions relating to the women of King Charles II for ten points each
\par 1. As a dowry for marrying Catherine of Braganza, this country gave Charles 800,000 pounds and the port cities of Tangier and Bombay.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Portugal}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The first English mistress of Charles, after this woman replaced Louise de Kerouaille, Madame Carwell, she was hailed and cheered by the public as the 'Protestant whore.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Nell }{\f0\ul Gwyn}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. One of the king's favorite mistresses, Barbara Villiers, the Countess of Castlemaine, fell in love with this friend of Charles and ensign in the guards who would 
go onto to become a brilliant general in the War of the Spanish Succession.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  John }{\f0\ul Churchill}{\f0  or Duke of }{\f0\ul Marlborough}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  Identify the man on a 30-20-20 basis.
\par 1. When his grandson was kidnapped in Rome in 1973, this man refused to pay the ransom un
til he received the teenager's ear in the  mail.  He then lent his son the ransom money at 4 percent interest with an annual deduction of 7.5 percent from the grandson's trust fund.
\par 2.  A part of his vast fortune was used in 1954 to open an  art museum in Malibu, California which was named after him.  Some of the  money was made up by his installation of a pay phone for guests in his home in Surrey, England.
\par 3.  He amassed a fortune of nearly $4 billion through his oil  companies, the largest of which were Skelly Oil and one named after himself.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Jean Paul }{\f0\ul Getty}{\f0  Sr.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  Answer the following questions about the love life of Hercules for ten points each.
\par 1. Megara, Hercules' first wife, was killed when this goddess caused Hercules to go mad and to beat her to death.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Hera}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Name the king of Thebes who rewarded Hercules for killing a lion which was eating his cattle by sending to Hercules each of his fifty daughters to be impregnated.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Thespius}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. When Hercules fell in love with Princess Iole, this second wife of his sent him a poisoned shirt which caused him so much pain that he killed himself.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Deianira}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 6.  Identify the following characters created by Johann Goethe from a description for ten points each.
\par 1. "Gifted with deep, pure sentiment and penetrating intelligence", this man shoots himself in the head when he loses the woman he loves, Lotte.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Young }{\f0\ul Werther}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Guided through his apprenticeship by the Tower Society, he wishes to be an actor and playwright, but eventually realizes that his calling is surgery.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Wilhelm Meister}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This tempter's name derives from either the Greek for 'not loving the light' or the Hebrew for 'destroyer and liar.'  Identify this demon that characterizes itself as 'the spirit who always negates.'

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Mephistopheles}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  Answer the following questions about the class of diseases which Clarence Gibbs had dubbed transmissible spongiform encephalopathies for ten points each.
\par 1. Nobel Prize winner Daniel Gajdusek discovered that this disease which affects an isolated group of New Guineans, is caused by slow viruses and prions transmitted by cannibalism.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kuru}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The disease from which Stanley Prusiner first isolated prions, it causes the brains of sheeps to turn into a sponge.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Scrapie}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Also called Mad Cow disease, this prion disease first hit British cows about ten years ago, and has caused the slaughter of 200,000 animals.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  Answer the following questions about a marriage document which was signed  between France and England on May 21, 1420 for the stated numbe of points.
\par 1.  5:  Name the English king, the victor at Agincourt, who sign ed the document and was made heir to the French throne.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Henry V}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10:  Name the French king who signed the document, and by doing so disinherited his son Charles.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Charles VI}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  5:  Since the age of thir
teen, this young girl had been begging her parents to be allowed to marry Henry.  To strengthen his claim to  the throne, Henry V had a provision placed in the treaty that he would be given this French princess in marriage.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul  Katherine of Valois}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4.  10:  Name the French city after which this treaty was named.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f0\ul Troyes}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  Identify the following numerical groups of composers and artists for ten points each.
\par 1.  First, name the five members of the Russian Five.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Mili }{\f0\ul Balakirev}{\f0 , Aleksandr }{\f0\ul Borodin}{\f0 , Cesar }{\f0\ul Cui}{\f0 , Modest }{\f0\ul Mussorgsky}{\f0 , Nikolay }{\f0\ul Rimsky-Korsakov}{\f0 

\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This group of 20th century composers consisted of Tailleferre, Auric, Durey, Honneger, Milhaud and Poulenc.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Les Six}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul The Six}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Formed in 1907, this group which included Henri, Sloan and Bellows, tried to paint everyday subjects in an attempt to bring art back into contact with ordinary life.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Eight}{\f0  or the }{\f0\ul Ashcan School}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10.  Identify the work on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1.  First published in 1896 at the poet's own expense, after two years, six copies of the first edition still remained unsold, so the poet's brother Laurence bought them and later made a handsome profit reselling them in America.
\par 2.   Among the sixty-three poems found in this collection are 'Terence, this is Stupid Stuff', 'To an Athlete Dying Young' and 'When  I Was One-and-Twenty'.
\par 3.   The author of this collection is A.E. Housman.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul A Shropshire Lad}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  Identify the following about the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty for ten points apiece.
\par 1. In what year was the treaty ratified.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 1901}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The treaty cleared the way for the building of what.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Panama Canal}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. The Hay-Pauncefote Treaty sperseded what 1850 treaty between the US and Britain.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Clayton-Bulwer}{\f0  Treaty
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12.  Identify the psychologist on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1.   He taught at Dartmouth and Swarthmore before publishing }{\f0\ul Dynamics in Psychology}{\f0  in 1940.
\par 2.   Born in Estonia, he experimented in the Canary Islands with learning and perception in apes.
\par 3.   The founder of Gestalt along with Kurt Koffka and Max Wertheimer, he published }{\f0\ul Gestalt Psychology}{\f0  in 1929.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Wolfgang }{\f0\ul Kohler}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  Identify the following writers of works of and about science on a 10-5 basis.
\par 1.  10:  Late Night Thoughts on Listening to Mahler's Ninth Symphony
\par 5:  }{\f0\ul The Medusa and the Snail}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Lives of a Cell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Lewis }{\f0\ul Thomas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  }{\f0\ul The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul and The Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs}{\f0 
\par 5}{\f0\ul :  Zoology of the Voyage of the Beagle}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Charles }{\f0\ul Darwin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10: Why War? with Sigmund Freud
\par 5:   On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Albert }{\f0\ul Einstein}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  Identify the following Sumerian and Babylonian gods and goddesses from a short description for ten points each.
\par 1. The son of An and Ki, this Sumerian god of storms and air was the chief of the gods until the creation of Marduk.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Enlil}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Derived from the Sumerian goddess Inanna, this Babylonian goddess of love and war fell in love with the god Tammuz, but in a manner unclear in the legends, killed him.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ishtar}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Astarte}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. The Babylonian god of water and wisdom, he was the most respon
sible of  the gods.  Among his actions were saving Ishtar from the underworld, defeating the monster Kumarbi and saving mankind from the great flood.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ea}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Identify the following actress on a ten-five basis with the ten points clue being their real name.
\par 1.  10:  Betty Perske.
\par 5:  After her first leading role, which was in }{\f0\ul To Have and Have Not}{\f0 , she married Humphrey Bogart and appeared with him in }{\f0\ul Dark Passage}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Big Sleep}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Lauren }{\f0\ul Bacall}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10:   Maria von Losch.
\par 5:  Becoming a star with such movies as }{\f0\ul The Blue Angel}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Morocco}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Blond Venus}{\f0 , during World War II she appeared in many shows for the Allied troops.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Marlene }{\f0\ul Dietrich}{\f0 _
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  Gladys Smith.
\par 5:  One of the co-founders of United Artists Corporation, this Canadian silent-film actress earned the nickname 'America's sweetheart' for her playing of innocent heroines.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Mary }{\f0\ul Pickford}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0  
\par 16.  Given a set of two titles that sound similar, name the author of one work  for five points, or both for ten.
\par 1. The novel }{\f0\ul We, the Living}{\f0 , and the short story collection }{\f0\ul We Are the Living}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Ayn }{\f0\ul Rand}{\f0  and Erskine }{\f0\ul Caldwell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The short story collection }{\f0\ul Thirteen O'Clock}{\f0 , and the short story collection }{\f0\ul The Thirteen Clocks}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Stephen Vincent }{\f0\ul Benet}{\f0  and James }{\f0\ul Thurber}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. }{\f0\ul The Rape of the Lock}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul The Rape of the Locks}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul The Rape of the Ringlets}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Alexander }{\f0\ul Pope}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Menander}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. Identify the common name on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1. Converted in 1922 from a collier, it was the United States' first true aircraft carrier.  It is also the name of Edmund, for whom the Dukedom of York was created in 1385.
\par 2. An Air Force Base in Hampton, Virginia, which is home to the US Air Combat Command, it is also the last name of the American astronomer who invented the bolometer and flew the first heavier-than-air machine.
\par 3. It is the name of the city in Virginia where the CIA's headquarters is located.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Langley}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 18.  Answer the following questions about the geography of the region near the mouth of the Zaire river.
\par 1. Near its mouth, located on opposite sides of the river, are these two capital cities of Zaire and Congo.  Name these two cities for ten points each.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kinshasa}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Brazzaville}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Although completely surrounded by the Congo, this region just north of  the river was declared a province of Angola by an 1886 treaty with Belgium.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Cabinda}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  Identify the American author on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1.  He co-wrote the screenplay for Alfred Hitchcock's }{\f0\ul Strangers on a Train}{\f0  with Czenzi Ormonde.
\par 2.  During World War One, he served in the Canadian army and well as the RAF, before turning to writing for detective-story pulp magazines.
\par 3.  His best known works which feature Philip Marlowe are }{\f0\ul The Long Goodbye}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Big Sleep}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Raymond }{\f0\ul Chandler}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20.  Identify the scientist on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1. Upon landing in a rural village after making the first ever solo ascent in a hydrogen balloon, the local villagers bravely attacked his evil apparition with pitchforks and 'killed' it.
\par 2. His most famous discovery, occurring in 1787, briefly created the paradox that if a gas was cooled to absolute zero, it would vanish.
\par 3. Independently of Gay-Lussac, he formulated the law which states that at constant pressure, the volume of air varies directly with the temperature.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jacques Alexandre Cesar }{\f0\ul Charles}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  Identify the following British authors from works for five points apiece with a five point bonus for all correct.
\par 1. 'Queen Mab' and 'Ode to the West Wind'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Percy Bysshe }{\f0\ul Shelley}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 'Dejection: An Ode' and 'Christabel'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Samuel Taylor }{\f0\ul Coleridge}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 'Colin Clouts Come Home Againe' and 'Mother Hubbards Tale'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Edmund }{\f0\ul Spenser}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. }{\f0\ul Counter-Attack}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Siegfried }{\f0\ul Sassoon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. }{\f0\ul The Honest Whore}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Shoemaker's Holiday}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Thomas }{\f0\ul Dekker}{\f0 
\par }}