{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3422}{\nofchars19510}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws23959}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000000000}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by University of Iowa (James Erwin, Trevor Schultz, Mary Moran, and Aaron Twait) 
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. On one level, this novel was written to counter Chernyshevskys }{\f0\ul Chto elat?}{\f0 , ridiculing Chernyshevskys assumptions through irrational behavior and reasoning.  The authors first successful longer work, the main c
haracter is a keenly conscious misogynist who masks excessive pride with pathological submissiveness.  For 10 points, name this Dostoevski novel, which begins with the forty-year-old protagonist already withdrawn from society, spewing hatred, bitter philo
sophy, and ridicule at the imaginary reader of his journals.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Notes From the Underground}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. The ancients felt that the trains of light on these mysterious apparitions suggested a womans tresses, and our name for them comes from the Greek for long h
aired.  Thought to be phenomena of the earths upper atmosphere until the late 16th century, in 1705 the true nature of their motion was established.  For 10 points, name these heavenly bodies, some of which include Pons-Winnecke, Peltier, and Kahoutek.

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Comet}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. Like Autolycus and Prometheus, he was a widely popular figure of folklore - the trickster, or master thief.  He told his wife not to perform the usual sacrifices after his death and to leave his body unburied.  Thus, he was able to return f
rom the underworld to punish her for her omission, but lived to a ripe old age before dying for a second time, once returning home.  For 10 points, name this king of Corinth, punished by repeatedly having to roll a huge stone up a hill, only to have it ro
ll down once reaching the summit.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sisyphus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. The most famous performer of this instrument in the 16th century was the English composer John Dowland, a revival of its popularity in the 20th century was due to the artistry of Julian Bream.  Introdu
ced into Europe by the Moors in the Middle Ages, it came into its golden age in the 16th century because it was particularly suited to the accompaniment of the complex polyphonic music of the time.  For 10 points, name this fretted, stringed instrument, w
ith a rounded back and a flat front, whose strings are plucked with the fingers.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Lute}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. Born 245 in Salona, his chief concern was to assure the stability of the state and of the throne.  As a result, Britain was restored to the Empire in 296, the
 Persians were subjugated in 298, and the tetrarchy was established as a form of government.  For 10 points, name this Roman emperor, whose unsuccessful economic policies and bloody persecutions of Christians were the only black marks on his reign.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Diocletian}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. The pure metal is obtained by the Goldschmitt process, a reduction of the acid by aluminum filings and a reduction of the oxide by heating with charcoal in an electric or regenerative gas furnace.  Important occurrences of this element in the United St
ates are in Boulder County, Colorado, San Bernadino County, California, and in the Black Hills of South Dakota.  For 10 points, name this element, with atomic weight 183.92, atomic symbol W, whose chief use is in lamp filaments.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tungsten}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7. Althou
gh a number of rivers are present in this country, the Lempa is the only navigable one there.  Most of the country is described as a volcanic upland - a continuation of its northern neighbors highlands-- and some of its tallest peaks include San Miguel, S
an Vicente, Santa Ana, and Izalio.  For 10 points, name this; the only Central American country with no Caribbean coastline.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul El Salvador}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. The younger daughter of a hypochondriac father, she swears off men after a series of disastrous encounters 
with would-be lovers of her own and of acquaintances Harriet Smith and Jane Fairfax.  Her resolve is broken, though, when brother-in-law Mr. Knightley decides to behave in a more than brotherly manner.  For 10 points, name this Jane Austen heroine, the mo
st recent to grace the silver screen.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Emma}{\f0  Woodhouse
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. This physician, with a public-health degree from Harvard, burst onto the national political scene in 1974 as Minister of the Environment. Gaining international recognition in the late 1980s 
as leader of the United Nations World Commission on the Environment and Development, family reasons forced her to step aside as Labor Party leader in October, 1992. For 10 points, name this speculative candidate for Secretary General of the United Nations
, and first female Prime Minister of Norway.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Gro Harlem }{\f0\ul Brundtland}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 10. He planned his composition by placing wax or clay figures in a box and used candles for lighting effects.   Achieving a unique style through exaggeration, sometimes distorting 
the proportions of his figures for dramatic effect, his masterpieces include a Last Supper from a diagonal perspective. Called Il Furioso for the rapidity with which he executed his commissions, in 1548 he painted }{\f0\ul St. Mark Rescuing a Slave}{\f0 
.  For 10 points, name this Venetian painter of the Renaissance, known by his nickname, which means little dyer.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jacopo }{\f0\ul Tintoretto}{\f0  or Jacopo }{\f0\ul Robusti}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. An advocate for the introduction of the Gregorian calendar, in 1730, he was appointed as professor of astronomy at Uppsala, in 1733 published detailed observations of the aurora borealis and was the first to associate the phenomenon with the earth's m
agnetic field.  For 10 points, name this scientist, a pioneer in the use of photometric devices to measure the brightness of stars and the creator of the temperature scale standard in the Metric System.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Anders }{\f0\ul Celsius}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12. The main character of thi
s story is born to Cherokee Sal, a fallen woman who dies in childbirth.  The men of the camp decide to raise the main character themselves, and believe the boy to be a harbinger of good fortune, but tragedy later strikes and the boy and his protector both
 die in a flood.  For 10 points, name this short story, first published in 1868 in the }{\f0\ul Overland Monthly}{\f0  by Bret Harte.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul The Luck of Roaring Camp}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. In 612 B.C., it was captured and destroyed by a combined army of Medes and Babylonians.  In the 180
0s, archaeologists unearthed the site and discovered the great library of King Ashurbanipal.  For 10 points, name this ancient city, located in the east bank of the Tigris River--the last capital of the ancient Assyrian Empire.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Nineveh}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. It was
 originally the Hebrew name of a valley just south of Jerusalems southwestern hill.  The later view of it is anticipated in an Isaianic reference to a large topheth (burning place) near Jerusalem, said to be lit by the Lord to punish the Assyrians and the
ir king.  For 10 points, name this place, where, according to Jesus in the synoptic Gospels, sinner are punished after death.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Gehenna}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Even in its absence, no one doubted that Congress had the power to, in Chief Justice Marshalls words, punish any violation of its laws. In 1790, Secretary of State Jefferson and Secretary of the Treasury Hamilton focused on this in their debate over t
he creation of a national bank.  For 10 points, name this Constitutional clause--Article I, Section 8, Clause 18, which gets a nickname from the fact that it stretches Congressional powers beyond those explicitly stated.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Necessary and proper clause}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Elastic clause}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Coefficient clause}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. Much of this matter occurs in gland and nerve cells, but little in muscle cells.  They are important in the formation of zymogen granules by adding protein secretions from the endoplasmic reticulum.  For 10 poi
nts, name this irregular network of rod-like, globular or granular bodies in animal cells, often concentrated around the nucleus.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Golgi bodies}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Golgi apparatus}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Golgi complex}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. The grandmother, the mother, Bailey, June Starr, John Wesley, a
nd the cat, Pitti Sing, leave Atlanta on a car trip to Florida.  As with any vacation, the grandmother and the children are complaining; no one suspects that none of them will return.  Due to bad directions given by the grandmother, the car encounters an 
escaped convict named the Misfit, who shoots the entire family.  For 10 points, give the name of this comic yet chilling story by Flannery O'Connor.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul A Good Man Is Hard to Find}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. In 1761, he served with General Robert Monckton at the conquest of 
Martinique, and in the late 1770s became president of the Board of War.  Some have claimed that there was a plot called the Conway Cabal to replace Washington with him as commander in chief of colonial forces.  For 10 points, name this American general, w
ho defeated John Burgoyne at Saratoga.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Horatio }{\f0\ul Gates}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  In the strictest sense, this term is applicable only to photons produced as a result of transitions in atomic nuclei.  This is usually detected by observing effects that they produce in mat
ter and when encountering an atom, such as the photoelectric effect and the Compton effect.  For 10 points, name this type of radiation, occurring when a photon is emitted from an atomic nucleus undergoing a transition to a
\par lower energy level.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Gamma ray}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Gamma radiation}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 
20. Traditionally, its history begins with the settlement of a persecuted stone cutter from Dalmatia in the 4th century C.E.  It briefly came under the control of Cesare Borgia in 1503, but successfully managed to avoid the parti
san entanglements of the Middle Ages, culminating in 1631, when the papacy, through Pope Urban VIII, recognized its independence.  For 10 points, name this, the only European state outside of the Iron Curtain to be led by Communists, which, at 24 square m
iles, is the smallest republic in Europe.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The Most Serene Republic of  }{\f0\ul San Marino}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes dissented to this decision, stating that the ruling was based on an economic theory which a large part of the country does not ente
rtain. By a 5-4 margin, the Supreme Court declared the law in question unconstitutional, because it interfered with liberty of contract.  For 10 points, name this Supreme Court case, in which a New York state law limiting bakers to a 60 hour workweek was 
overturned.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Lochner v. New York}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. This term is the French irregular diminutive of fable.  An important element in French poetry in the 12th and 13th centuries, it was imitated by Chaucer in stories such as 'The Millers Tale'.  For 10 points, nam
e this term, a short tale in verse, almost invariably in octosyllabic couplets, dealing for the most part from a comic point of view with incidents of ordinary life.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Fabliau}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. In 1612 he was obliged to sign a charter guaranteeing that he would 
not act without consulting the estates and the council--a body of nobles. An able administrator, he reorganized his kingdoms administration into five colleges, each a separate department of government responsible for its own decisions.  For 10 points, nam
e this successful reformer and military leader, who led the Swedish intervention in Germany during the Thirty Years War.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Gustavus Adolphus}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Gustav II}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24. If you go to Santiago, Chile you can go to a seafood stand and pick up a pound of picorocos. Each picoroco will look like a mop-like mound the size of a jumbo egg attached to a bright red pincer. Upon closer inspection, the pincers look like teeth and
 
then you can also see the long feathery appendage that flutters out between them. A picoroco is ' for ten points -- what sea dwelling creature that is most often found firmly cemented onto a rock, dock or whale that uses its feathery appendage to bring fo
od back into its main body?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Barnacle}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by University of Iowa (James Erwin, Trevor Schultz, Mary Moran, and Aaron Twait) 
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Name the famous person from quotes, 30-20-10.
\par 1."Dictators ride to and fro upon tigers which they dare not dismount. And the tigers are getting hungry."
\par 2."Now this is not the end.  It is not even the beginning of the end.  But it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning."
\par 3."[Clement Attlee is] a modest man who has a great deal to be modest about."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Winston }{\f0\ul Churchill}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. Anthropologists don't usually accumulate vast personal power, but they can, and these three scientists prove it. 
\par 1. For 5 points, Robert is the scion of this anthropological dynasty, and is Kenya's Minister of the Environment. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Leakey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For 10 points, another Kenyan anthropologist became President of Kenya, and first rose to prominence after the publication of _Facing Mt. Kenya_, which described the customs of his Kikuyu tribe.

\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jomo }{\f0\ul Kenyatta}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For 15 points,
 this American anthropologist used his vast family fortune to finance his expeditions to the Amazon, and to endow an ethnographic collection which soon became a standard for museums to follow.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul D}{\f0 avid }{\f0\ul Rockefeller}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. This is a Bible bonus.  For ten points each, name each of the following New Testament-era religious groups after a brief description.
\par 1. Holding positions as the Temple aristocracy in Jerusalem, this group rejected the Tradition of the Elders as a valuable tool for extending and interpreting the Law, and also rejected the belief in the resurrection of
\par the dead.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sadducees}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This term is associated with a movement of revolutionaries active in the 1st century C.E. in Roman Palestine--they supposedly played the major role in the soc
ial unrest which ultimately erupted in the First Jewish Revolt against Rome in 66 C.E.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Zealots}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This group of persons, who lived in communities in towns and villages, were distinguished by their love for each other, their simplicity of life, and
 their strict adherence to the Law.  In the ruins of one of their settlements, the Dead Sea Scrolls were found.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Essenes}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. Name the American novel given a minor character for ten, or a more well-known character for five.
\par 1. 10:  Rosemary Hoyt, Violet McKisco
\par 5:  Dick Diver
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Tender Is the Night}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10:  Aunt Beast
\par 5:  Mrs. Who, Mrs. Which, Mrs. Whatsit
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul A Wrinkle in Time}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10: Nancy Clutter
\par 5: Perry Smith, Dick Hickok
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul In Cold Blood}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. Answer these questions about Japanese history for ten points each.
\par 1. The chiefs of this clan are considered to be the ancestors of Japanse imperial family.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Yamato}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This was the last powerful shogunate family--they were removed from power in 1867.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tokugawa}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. By 1637, all foreigners except those from this country had been expelled from Japan.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Netherlands}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Holland}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 6. To discern who should get credit for discovering this planet is still somewhat of a puzzle to figure out. In the mid 
19th-Century, a French astronomer predicted its position and sent his guess to Johan Galle in Berlin who then saw it on his first night of looking in 1846. While the Frenchman wanted to take the credit, it eventually became known that a British student at
 Cambridge had predicted its existence one year earlier, though his speculations were ignored for several months.
\par 1. First -- for 10 points, name the planet.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Neptune}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. And for 10 points a piece -- name the two astronomers who postulated Neptune's existence separately which turned into a bitter fight over discovery rights.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Urbain John Joseph }{\f0\ul LeVerrier}{\f0 , John Couch }{\f0\ul Adams}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7. 30-20-10 name the architectural work
\par 1. The picturesque domes of the cathedrals of the Assumption, the Annunciation, and the Archangel lend it pleasing variety.
\par 2. The whole Grand Palace was shaped by the Italian baroque architect Rastrelli.
\par 3. This triangular-shaped Moscow fortress, one-and-a-half miles around, has had its present walls since 1492.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Kremlin}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. If you went south for winter break, then maybe you'll have a little bit more luck on this bonus question.  Ill name six Mexican states, and for 5 points each, name their capitals.
\par }\pard \fi-6336\li6336\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 1. Chihuahua\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Chihuahua}{\f0 
\par 2. Merida\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Yucatan}{\f0 
\par 3. Monterrey\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Nuevo Leon}{\f0 
\par 4. Guadalajara\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Jalisco}{\f0 
\par 5. Tlaxcala\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tlaxcala}{\f0 _
\par 6. Chiapas\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tuxtla Gutierrez}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. Answer these questions about Edgar Allen Poe's 'The Gold Bug' for 10 points each.
\par 1. Name the central character, who has sequestered himself on Sullivans Island, South Carolina, after a series of economic setbacks.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul Legrand}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Name Legrand's large, deaf, dumb assistant.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Jupiter}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. The treasure to be found once belonged to this outlaw.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Captain }{\f0\ul Kidd}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. Free agent sports clubs have been around longer than you might think.  First, for 5 points, name the last two cities that the following three sports teams have resided in.
\par 1. Oakland Athletics
\par \tab Answers: }{\f0\ul Kansas City}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Philadelphia}{\f0 
\par 2. Arizona Cardinals
\par \tab Answers: }{\f0\ul St. Louis}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Chicago}{\f0 
\par 3. Atlanta Braves
\par \tab Answers: }{\f0\ul Milwaukee}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Boston}{\f0 
\par Now, for 5 points each, name the last city that each of these sports teams resided in.
\par 4. Golden State Warriors
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Philadelphia}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. Detroit Pistons
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Fort Wayne}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 6. Washington Bullets
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Baltimore}{\f0 _
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 11.  In the last stage of the Second World War, his laboratory was destroyed by bombing and he subsequently killed himself. His 24 years o
f work up to that point dealt with a group of compounds that contain four pyrrole rings linked together. And he showed that chlorophylls are these types of compounds and are related to the red non-protein part of hemoglobin called haemin--a compound he ha
d his first initial success with. For 10 points a piece:
\par 1.  Name this German organic chemist born in 1881.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Hans }{\f0\ul Fischer}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Name the group of compounds that he was able to synthesize.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Porphyrins}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Give the year in which Hans Fischer won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 1930}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12. The Revolution may have settled a score with the British, but we Americans still had plenty of differences to iron out. For 10 points apiece, identify these events that would have given George
 III immense satisfaction, assuming he was aware the colonies were gone.
\par 1. This region took advantage of the Revolution to declare its independence first from New York, and then from the United States.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Vermont}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This 1794 uprising briefly expelled federal agents from western Pennsylvania, especially the ever-hated revenue collectors. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Whiskey Rebellion}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Name the association of Revolutionary veterans that intended to establish an American aristocratic monarchy, until it was ordered to disband by Washington himself. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Sons Of Cincinnatus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. Name the year from clues, 30-20-10
\par 1. The first official observance of the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. takes place.
\par 2. The U.S. bombs Tripoli and Benghazi, Libya, in retaliation against terrorist attacks.
\par 3. The space shuttle Challenger explodes moments after takeoff.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 1986}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. For 5 points each, identify the author of the following works.
\par 1.  }{\f0\ul Aurora Leigh}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul E}{\f0 lizabeth Barrett }{\f0\ul Browning}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  }{\f0\ul Three Guineas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Virginia }{\f0\ul Woolf}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  "The Jilting of Granny Weatherall"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Katharine Anne }{\f0\ul Porter}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4.  "How It Feels to Be Colored Me"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Zora Neale }{\f0\ul Hurston}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5.  "Ain't I a Woman?"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Sojourner }{\f0\ul Truth}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 6.  }{\f0\ul The Woman Warrior}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Maxine Hong }{\f0\ul Kingston}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Name the painting and the painter following a brief description for 5 points each.
\par 1. French painter, pictured on a white napkin is a bowl of peaches, and a plate with a melon cut into eight slices.  In front of the plate lies a bunch of green grapes, and a china plate sits against the wall behind the bowl of peaches.
\par \tab Answers: }{\f0\ul Still Life}{\f0 , Claude }{\f0\ul Monet}{\f0 
\par 2. French, the subject sits upright, her back against a pillow, in a yellow-orange dress, intent on the tome in her left hand.
\par \tab Answers: }{\f0\ul A Young Girl Reading}{\f0 , Jean-Honore _}{\f0\ul Fragonard}{\f0 
\par 3. American, two fishermen in brown raincoats and blue rain hats are in the center of the painting in a rowboat.  They pull in their catch of blue fish from the viewers right.
\par \tab Answers: }{\f0\ul The Herring Net}{\f0 , Winslow }{\f0\ul Homer}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16. Born in Milan, she was one of 24 children of a professor of math at the University of Bologna. She herself was appointed to the chair of math and philosophy at Bologna in 1750 but never made any original
 discoveries and was only remembered because her name was given to a cubic curve that a French mathematician had postulated long before she was born. 
\par 1. For 10 points a piece: first name her.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Maria Gaetana }{\f0\ul Agnesi}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For another 10, name the French mathematician, born 117 years before Agnesi - who became known for something much more famous than the cubic curve.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Pierre de }{\f0\ul Fermat}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. And finally, the cubic curve is often called "The <BLANK> of Agnesi" because the word "curve" was mistranslated into this other 5 letter word.  For 10 points, what's the word?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Witch}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. Given a horrific Dickensian schoolmaster, name the novel which contains him for 10 points each.
\par }\pard \fi-6336\li6336\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 1.  Doctor Blimber\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Dombey and Son}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-7056\li7056\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Mr. Creakle\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul David Copperfield}{\f0 
\par 3.  Mr. M'Choakumchild\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Hard Times}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 18. 30-20-10 Given the works, name the composer
\par 1.  }{\f0\ul Petite Messe sollene}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Stabat Mater}{\f0 
\par 2.  }{\f0\ul Otello}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul La Cerenetola }{\f0 
\par 3. }{\f0\ul The Barber of Seville}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul William Tell}{\f0 
\par Answer: Antonio _Rossini_
\par 
\par 19. Answer these questions about the different cloud genera for ten points each.
\par 1. These are high altitude, ice-crystal clouds in the form of white, delicate filaments, patches, or narrow bands.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Cirrus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The thunderstorm cloud - a mixed cloud of low, middle, and high altitude - it is exceptionally dense, tall, and billowed, full of contrast from brilliant white to inky black.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Cumulonimbus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. A low-altitude water or mixed cloud, whose tessellated, rounded, or roll-shaped elements are usually arranged in orderly groups, giving the appearance of a simple wave system.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Stratocumulus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. 30-20-10 name the work from excerpts.
\par 1. "It is w
ell known how the monks wrote silly lives of Catholic saints over the manuscripts on which classical works of ancient heathendom had been written. The German literati reversed this process with the profane French literature.  They wrote their philosophica
l nonsense beneath the French original."
\par 2. "'There are, besides, eternal truths, such as Freedom, Justice, etc., that are common to all states of society.  But communism abolishes eternal truths, it abolishes all religion, and all morality, instead of cons
tituting them on a new basis; it therefore acts in contradiction to all past historical experience.'"
\par 3. "A spectre is haunting Europe - the spectre of Communism.  All the powers of old Europe have entered into a holy alliance to exercise this spectre:  Pope and Tsar, Metternich and Guizot, French Radicals and German police-spies."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul The Communist Manifesto}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. Given an entity from Scandinavian mythology, tell me who killed it in Snorri's account of Ragnarok for 10 points each.
\par 1. Heimdall
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Loki}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Odin
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Fenris-wolf}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Frey
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Surt}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. Answer these questions about a famous English author for the stated number of points.
\par 1. Born Elizabeth Cleghorn in 1810, she gained fame as a novelist under her married name.  For 5 points, give the name by which she is commonly known.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Mrs. }{\f0\ul Gaskell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. For 10 points, name Gaskell's eponymous novel in which the heroine's father kills her rich lover, though her lower-class admirer is blamed for the crime.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Mary }{\f0\ul Barton}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For 15 points, give the name of the rural town created by Gaskell in a series of sketches for Dickens' journal _Household Words_.  The sketches evolved into a novel bearing the town's name.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Cranford}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. Name the author from works, 30-20-10
\par 1. }{\f0\ul On Horsemanship}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Cavalry Officer}{\f0 
\par 2. }{\f0\ul Cyropaedia}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Hieron}{\f0 
\par 3. }{\f0\ul Anabasis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Xenophon}{\f0 
\par }}