{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 Default Paragraph Fo;}{\s20\qc\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright \b\f1\fs32 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Title;}{
\s21\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s22\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s23\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s24\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s25\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s28\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s29\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s30\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s31\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s32\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s33\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs34 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 Academic Competition Foundation Re}{\author CCSO Sites Client}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages12}
{\nofwords3009}{\nofchars17153}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws21065}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1054\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000004000}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by Maryland I
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 1.  Their beliefs were set forth in Tw
elve Conclusions: condemnation of the papacy; belief in the primacy of the Scriptures; and condemnation of sacramentals, confession, pilgrimages, and other practices of the Catholic Church.  Persecuted beginning in 1399 by Henry IV, their founder was know
n as the "Morning Star of the Reformation."  FTP name these Oxford-based reformer who followed John Wycliffe.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lollards}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2.  His later years were marred with ill health, though he still found time to work with Keith Richard, Johnny Winter, and The B
and.  Born McKinley Morganfield, this bluesman was the driving force of Chess Records in the 60's, recording such tunes as "I Got my Mojo Working," "Hoochie Coochie Man," and "I'm Ready."  FTP name this musician known for his mastery of the slide, and for
 recording the song which gave the Rolling Stones their name.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Muddy }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Waters}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3.  A crumpled note identifies the date and the notorious unseen presence. Inscribed on a nearby side-board is the name of the subject as well as the artist; it also suppor
ts a canister of ink and a fountain pen,  similar to the one clutched in the subject's dead hand.  A single light-source illuminates the subject's  lifeless face and the bloodied drapery which engulfs him.  FTP name this 1793 canvas by Jacques-Louis  Davi
d, whose subject was assassinated by Charlotte Corday.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Death of Marat}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4.  In 1890, this mathematician published a definitive work on invariant theory, which laid the foundations for modern algebraic geometry.  In his 1899 }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Foundations of Geometry}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
, he prescribed how the abstract axiomatic terms of geometry could be used without attempting to define their meaning. FTP, who was this man who one year later listed 23 important unsolved problems at the International Congress of Mathematics?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: David }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hilbert}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 5.  His father was Turkish, his mother was Spanish, and he was raised as a Sephardic Jew.  Much of his early life was described in two autobiographical volumes: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Tongue Set Free}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{
\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Torch in the Ear}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 .  He depicts the madness of a reclusive sinologist Professor Kien in his only novel }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Tower of  Babel}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 .  FTP name this writer of }{
\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Crowds and Power}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 --the Bulgarian Nobel laureate of 1981.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Elias }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Canetti}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 6.  The first to arrive in 1857 were Ethan Allen Grosch and Hosea Ballou Grosch; soon after was a man known as Old Pancake, for whom it was named; another early arrival was William Morris Stewart, who later became one of Nevada's first senators.  FTP name
 this site on Mt. Davidson in the Virginia Range of  Western Nevada--the richest known U.S. silver deposit.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Comstock }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lode  
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 7.  According to one story, it was named after an epithet of Athene, who had cast the deciding vote in the second trial of 
Orestes.  Another holds that it was here that Ares was tried for the murder of Halirrhothios, son of Poseidon.  The name was also applied to a council of former archons, who assembled there.  FTP name hill west of the Acropolis, which leant its name to Jo
hn Milton's best-known prose work.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Areopagus}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 8.  He ships missionaries and idols to China, makes and loses money, saves his own life in a shipwreck by letting another drown, and finally comes up before Button Molder, who tries to melt him in his l
adle.  Eventually he is saved by his true love Solveig.  FTP name this title character of a verse drama by Henrik Ibsen, with incidental music by Edvard Grieg.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Peer Gynt}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 9.  These subcellular organelles were first described by Christian deDuve of
 the Catholic University of Louvain. Diseases caused by dysfunction include Semliki Forest Virus, and Tay-Sachs disease, in which the organelles do not fully digest their contents due to a deficient hydrolytic enzyme.  FTP, what are these internally acidi
c bodies that act as the digestive system of cells?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 lysosomes}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 10.  Born in Chippewa Falls, she still has a "grammy" that sends her polka-dotted ties.  If you were in  New York, you could probably meet her at a screening of }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Sorrow and the Pity}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 ,
 or perhaps singing  "It Had to be You" at a local club.  She has a series of relationships, most significantly with a neurotic Jewish comedian named Alvy Singer.  FTP name this character played by Diane Keaton and you will also name the Best Picture of 1
977--directed by Woody Allen.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Annie Hall}{\f0 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page }{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 11.  The name's the same.  In Dante's }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Inferno}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 , he is the creature\emdash 
half man and half snake--who is the incarnation of fraudulence, and he shuttles travellers on his back from the 7th to 8th circle.  In Greek
 mythology, he is the three-headed monster who dwells on the island of Erytheia, guarding a large herd of cattle.  FTP give the common name--the latter of which is killed by Heracles.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Geryon}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 12.  This zoologist's early work concerned the vision i
n fish, and he showed that their visual acuity is superior to that of humans.  He began his most famous experiments in 1915, however, when he placed a sugar solutions on different colored cards and showed that honeybees could distinguish much of the visib
le and ultraviolet spectrum. FTP, who is this co-winner of the 1973 Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology who also elucidated the dancing "language" of bees?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Karl von }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Frisch}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 13.  It has four acts entitled "The Duel," "The Gypsy," "The Gypsy's Son
," and "The Penalty."  It is said that the role of Azucena is the most difficult contralto role of all time, calling for no less than twenty trills in the aria "Strida la vampa", while maintaining harmony in her duets with Manrico.  FTP name this Guiseppe
 Verdi opera featuring the "Anvil Chorus", which translates as "The Troubadour."
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Il Trovatore}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  (prompt on "The Troubadour" if given early)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  
\par 14.  This senator became chairman of the Foreign Relations committee in 1861, but was removed ten years late
r after refusing to support Grant's treaty to annex the Dominican Republic.  After helping to form the Free-Soil party, he argued for integrated public schools in Massachusetts.  FTP, what powerful orator was beaten by Preston Brooks after his "Crime Agai
nst Kansas" speech in May, 1856?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Charles }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sumner}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 15.  This character had his origins in Plautus' }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Miles}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  (MEE les) }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Gloriosus}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  and the capitano of the commedia dell'arte.  He holds forth at the Bo
ar's Head Inn with a rascally crew that includes Bardolph, Nym, and Pistol, and Prince Hal's companion Poins.  FTP name this comic character who appears in }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Henry IV: Part I and II}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{
\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Merry Wives of Windsor}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 , whose death is given attention in }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Henry V}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Sir John }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Falstaff}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 16.  Its founder was Ammonius Saccas, and its greatest exponents were Marinus, Proclus, and Porphyry.  Flourishing until Justinian closed the schools of philosophy, another member convinced the Emperor Gallenius to build a city 
for philosophers, governed by the rules of it major treatise--the }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Enneads}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
 (or  groups of nine).  FTP name this philosophy stressing the mystical union with God taught by Plotinus, and deriving from the teachings of Plato.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Neoplatonism}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 17.  It is 
used especially in the study of electrons in matter and in the production of variable energy gamma-ray beams.  Discovered in 1923, it provides strong verification of the quantum theory, since it requires that one treat X rays and gamma rays as particles o
r photons rather than as waves.  FTP name this increase in the wavelengths of scattered rays--described by the winner of the 1923 Nobel Prize in Physics.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Compton}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  Effect  
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 18.  Originally led by Fulk of Neuilly and assembled in Venice, its first ac
t was to sack the Dalmatian town of Zara on the orders of the Doge, Enrico Dandolo.  Philip of Swabia then diverted troops to  Constantinople to install his father-in-law, Isaac, as Byzantine Emperor in return for funding of an attack on Egypt.  When Alex
ius V overthrew Isaac, the crusaders stormed the city and sent much of its treasures back to Venice.  FTP, identify this crusade called by Pope Innocent III in 1202, which established a Latin Empire of Constantinople.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Fourth Crusade}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 19.  The c
hief trading posts on this river are Fort Simpson, Fort Providence, and Aklavik.  Peter Pond was perhaps the first white man to enter its drainage basin at Lake Athabasca, where it joins the Finlay-Peace river system.  FTP name this river issuing from the
 Great Slave Lake, which is named for the Canadian explorer who first descended to the Arctic Ocean.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mackenzie}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  River 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 20.  A Goanese girl who could multiply fish; a werewolf from the Nilgiri Hills; a boy who could eat metal; a Benarsi boy who coul
d travel time; Parvati the witch-girl; Shiva of the terrible knees; and most importantly, Saleem--a telepath with a gigantic nose.  FTP name this titular group all born on August 15, 1947, who were the subject of a Booker Prize-winning novel by Salman Rus
hdie.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Midnight's Children}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page 
21.  This man believed that virginity was the ideal state, even greater than celibacy.  He asserted the Church's autonomy in a series of debates with Symmachus, and his feud with Theodosius led him to temporarily deprive 
the emperor of the sacraments.  FTP name this Byzantine theologian and bishop of Milan.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: St. }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ambrose}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 22.  Until the 17th century he was thought to be a contemporary of Moses, and his writings were considered almost as sacred as the Bible.  Actuall
y, the books ascribed to him were written by a group of teachers who lived in Alexandria in the first two centuries BC or AD.  Still, his supposed writings on alchemy and the occult had influence on the French symbolists and William Butler Yeats.  FTP giv
e the name sometimes applied to the Egyptian god Thoth--the source of Hermeticism.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hermes Trismegistus}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 23.  He owns over twenty patents, including a system for smelting iron ore.  He has two children by his ex-wife Mimi Jorgensen, a house in the C
atskills, and an accountant named Herbert Macauley.  His real name is Clyde Wynant, and he is accused of murdering his secretary Julia Wolfe--though he is, in fact, dead.  FTP name this man sought by Nick and Nora Charles--the subject of a mystery by Dash
iell Hammett.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Thin Man}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 24.  He began his career by working on a number of documentaries for the Mussolini regime, and such films as }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Paisan}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Germany Year Zero}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{
\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Open City}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2  dealt with World War I.  Though he worked with the great Italian actress Anna Magnani (Mon YON nie) in }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 L'Amore}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
, he is probably better known for more personal films such as }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Stromboli}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 , which starred his eventual wife Ingrid Bergman.  FTP name this director, whose daughter Isabella models for Lancome cosmetics.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Roberto }{\f0\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Rossellini}{\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page }{\b\f0\expnd0\expndtw-2 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Maryland I
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 1.  Identify these Irish nationalists for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  15:  One of the founders of the United Irishmen, he negotiated the unsuccessful landing of the French in Ireland.  Captured off Lough Swilly in 1798, he committed suicide.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Theobald Wolfe }{\f0\ul Tone}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  As lord mayor of Dublin, he reestablished the Catholic Association, which Prime Minister Robert Pee
l had declared illegal.  The main street in Dublin is named for this man, whose imprisonment led to his 
\par death.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Daniel }{\f0\ul O'Connell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  5:  As a member of Parliament, he agitated for Home Rule in Ireland, winning over William Gladstone and the Liberal Party.  But he is perhaps best known for his affair with Kitty O'Shea.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Charles Stewart }{\f0\ul Parnell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  Identify the following ancient sepulchral structures FTP each.
\par 1.  The Babylonians and Assyrians used these many-tiered pyramidal structures made of sun-baked bricks--
\par with a shrine at the top.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul ziggurats}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Predynastic Egyptians used these rectangular mounds with flat roofs and sloping sides.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul mastabas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Mastabas were the precursor to pyramids.  FTP name the site of the first stepped pyramid, engineered 
\par by Imhotep.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sakkara}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  Give the names of the following Norse artifacts FTP each.
\par 1.  The spear of Odin, whose touch could turn enemies to ants. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Gungnir}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  The ring of Odin, which would multiply every night.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Draupnir}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3.  The magic chain used to bind Fenris Wolf, fashioned by the mountain spirits of the noise made by the footfall of a cat, the beards of women, the roots of stones, the breath of fish, and the spittle of birds.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Gleipnir}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  Identify these parts of a chicken's egg FTP each.
\par 1.  Also known as the egg white, it is the proteinaceous part of an egg.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul albumen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Its blood vessels function in gas exchange, and it is the receptacle for urinary wastes of the embryo.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul allantois}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This is the outer membrane surrounding the embryo and the other membranes.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul chorion}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  Rap music and literature unite again for a round of tangled titles.  Given two clues, combine the titles to form one phrase.  For instance, if I sai
d, "A single by LL Cool J and an autobiographical account by Isak Dinesan, you would say, 'Mamma Said Knock You Out of Africa.'" 
\par 1.  A single by Digital Underground; a double play by August Strindberg
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Humpty Dance of Death}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  A single by House of Pain; a novel by Jules Verne featuring Phileas Fogg
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Jump Around the World in Eighty Days}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  A novel by Erskine Caldwell featuring Jeeter Lester; a single by Kool G Rap
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tobacco Road to the Riches}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6.  Identify the following women of the Roman Empire FTP each.
\par 1.  After the death of her husband Augustus, she attempted unsuccessfully to control the government 
\par through her son Tiberius.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Livia}{\f0  Drusilla
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  The third wife of  Claudius, her name has become a byword for lasciviousness and incontinency.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Valeria }{\f0\ul Messalina}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  The mistress and later wife of Nero, she was the subject of a Monteverdi opera.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Poppaea}{\f0  Sabina
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 7.  Given a nation or territory, name the Parliament or legislature which governs it FFP each and a five 
\par point bonus for all correct.
\par 1.  Iceland
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Althing}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Israel
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Knesset}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Sweden
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Riksdag}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4.  Denmark
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Folketing}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5.  The Isle of Man
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tynwald}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  Name the poetic forms of the following works of literature FTP each.  For instance, if I said Dylan Thomas' "Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night" you would say \ldblquote villanelle.\rdblquote 
\par 1.  Dante's  }{\f0\ul Divine Comedy}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul terza rima}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Keats' "Isabella"; Byron's _Don Juan_ (Don JOO un)
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul ottava rima}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Pope's "An Essay on Man" and "An Essay on Criticism"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul heroic couplets}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul verse}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  Give the Pre-Raphaelite painters of the following works FTP each.
\par 1.  }{\f0\ul The Light of the World}{\f0 ,  }{\f0\ul The Triumph of the Innocents}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: William Holman }{\f0\ul Hunt}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Ecce Ancilla Domini, Beata Beatrix
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul D}{\f0 ante Gabriel }{\f0\ul Rossetti}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  The Last of England, Work
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Ford Madox }{\f0\ul Brown}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10.  Identify the following geometrical figures, which are constructed through the following operations 
\par FTP each.
\par 1.  Begin with a line; remove the middle third; then remove the middle third of the remaining segments, 
\par and so on.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Cantor}{\f0  dust or middle-third Cantor set
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Cut away the center one-ninth of a circle; cut away the centers of the remaining eight squares, and so 
\par on.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sierpinski}{\f0  carpet
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This is a cube whose sides are composed of Sierpinski carpets; it has infinite surface area, yet zero volume.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Menger}{\f0  sponge
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  Identify the following soccer clubs currently alive in the UEFA Champion's Cup FTP each.
\par 1.  The defending champions are what Italian club based in Turin, who suffered the loss of Fabrizio Ravanelli over the summer.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Juventus}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Juve}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Last's years runners-up are what Amsterdam team, led by Ronald De Boer and Danny Blind, currently struggling to stay alive.
\par Answer: }{\f0\ul Ajax}{\f0  (EYE ax) Amsterdam
\par 3.  The likely favorites are what Lisbon-based team so far undefeated in league play.
\par Answer: FC }{\f0\ul Porto}{\f0   
\par 
\par 12.  Identify these water-laid deposits of outwash from glacial waters FTP each.
\par 1.  Often exploited as commercial sand and gravel pits, these are small hills of sand dumped near of at the edge of the ice.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul kame}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Running for kilometers in a direction parallel to ice movement, they are well-sorted, narrow, winding ridges of gravel deposited by stream flowing along the bottom of the glacier.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul esker}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This is a pair of layers of silt laid down in a glacial lake.  One of the layers contains finer silt due to freezing of the lake surface during winter.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul varve}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 13.  Identify these explorers from their ships FTP each, five if you need
\par another clue.
\par 1. 10:  }{\f0\ul Hopewell}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Half Moon}{\f0 
\par 5:  He was set adrift by mutineers on the ship }{\f0\ul Discovery}{\f0  in the James Bay, after discovering the Bay which bears his name.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Henry Hudson
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10:  }{\f0\ul Matthew}{\f0 
\par 5:  This Genoese navigator claimed North America for England in 1497.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Cabot}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  }{\f0\ul Erebus}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Terror}{\f0 
\par 5:  In 1845, this English arctic explorer attempted to find the Northwest passage, but was restrained by ice in the Victoria strait.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sir John }{\f0\ul Franklin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  The philosopher John Locke maintained that the mind must acquire knowledge through the five senses and a process of reflection.
\par 1.  First, FTP, what is this principle called, meaning "blank slate"?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul tabula rasa}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  The "tabula rasa" was introduced, FTP, in what 1690 treatise?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: An }{\f0\ul Essay Concerning Human Understanding}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Finally, FTP, name the movement that denies }{\f0\ul a priori}{\f0  ideas, which influenced Locke, Berkeley, and Hume.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Empiricism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15.  Identify the following paladins of Charlemagne according to medieval romances FTP each.
\par 1.  Roland becomes engaged to the sister of this man, who is his best friend and known for common sense.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Olivier}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  The cousin of Roland was this man who rode the horse Bayardo, known for his violent behavior.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Rinaldo}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  The traitor among the paladins, in }{\f0\ul The Song of Roland}{\f0  he is responsible for the defeat at Roncesvalles.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ganelon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  This man was a proponent of military stock-piling and advocated "massive retaliation." 
\par 1.  First, FFP, name this Secretary of State under Eisenhower.
\par Answer: }{\f0\ul J}{\f0 ohn Foster }{\f0\ul Dulles}{\f0 
\par 2.  The brother of John Foster Dulles was Allen Dulles.  FFP name the government agency he was appointed to direct in 1953.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Central Intelligence Agency}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul CIA}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  The uncle of John Foster Dulles was Robert Lansing, who served as Secretary of State under what president FTP?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Woodrow }{\f0\ul Wilson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4.  The grandfather of John Foster Dulles was John Watson Foster, who served as Secretary of State under what president FTP?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul B}{\f0 enjamin }{\f0\ul Harrison}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17.  Identify the following men, who proposed theories for the evolution of the solar system FTP each.
\par 1.  Along with Laplace, this man proposed the nebular hypothesis\emdash though he is better known as a philosopher.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Immanuel }{\f0\ul Kant}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  With Harold Jeffreys this man propo
sed a tidal theory in 1918, where a huge gaseous tidal wave condensed to form the planets.  He is better known for another research he did on blackbodies independently of Lord Rayleigh.
\par \tab  Answer: James }{\f0\ul Jeans}{\f0 
\par 3.  Using a chemical approach, this man gave evidence that the terrestrial planets were formed at extremely low temperatures.  He is better known for his isolation of deuterium.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Harold }{\f0\ul Urey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18.  FTP each name these conductors of classical music.
\par 1.  Born in Budapest, this man became permanent music director of the Philadelphia Orchestra in 1938.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Eugene }{\f0\ul Ormandy}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  He was named permanent conductor of the Los Angeles Philharmonic in 1962, but has regularly  conducted at the New York Metropolitan.  He was the conductor for the \ldblquote Three Tenors\rdblquote 
 performance.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Zubin }{\f0\ul Mehta}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  He has conducted the London Symphony Orchestra regularly and served as the conductor and music advisor for the film }{\f0\ul Immortal Beloved}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Sir Georg }{\f0\ul Solti}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 19.  Given the geographical site, tell which Hawaiian island it lies on FTP each.  Warning: An answer may or may not be used twice.
\par 1.  Pearl Harbor
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Oahu}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Hawaii}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Haleakala National Park
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Maui}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20.  Identify the authors of the following works FTP each, five if you need another work. 
\par 1. 10: }{\f0\ul The Tree of Man}{\f0 
\par 5: }{\f0\ul Voss}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Happy Valley}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Patrick }{\f0\ul White}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10: }{\f0\ul A Tree of Night}{\f0 
\par 5: }{\f0\ul Breakfast at Tiffany's}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Truman }{\f0\ul Capote}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10: }{\f0\ul The Fruit of the Tree}{\f0 
\par 5: }{\f0\ul The Age of Innocence}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Edith Newbold Jones }{\f0\ul Wharton}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  Match the following English cities with the rivers which flow through them.  FFP and a five point 
\par bonus for all correct.  The cities are:  Liverpool, Bath, Oxford, Newcastle, and Chester.  The rivers are:  
\par the Dee, the Mersey, the Thames, the Tyne, and the Avon.  
\par Answer: }{\f0\ul Liverpool--Mersey, Bath--Avon, Oxford--Thames, Newcastle--Tyne, and Chester--Dee}{\f0 
\par }}