{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages14}{\nofwords4639}{\nofchars26445}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws32476}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \qj\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\expnd0\expndtw-2 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\expnd0\expndtw-2 PRIVATE }{\b\expnd0\expndtw-2 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e6978000100005c0000}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\expnd0\expndtw-2 

\par Questions by Univ. of Memphis
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 1. Eight declared that all army officers above the rank of colonel had to be appointed by Congress; eleven allowed for the future statehood of Canada; six allowed individual states to declare war 
on invading Indian tribes; and five limited the number of congresmen from any state to seven or less. These are all features of, for 10 points, what document under which the United States was governed from 1778 to 1789?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Articles of Confederation}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. The reckless nature of this novel's main character seems to be genetic, or so says Will Falls, who recounts stories of his great-great uncle and his great-grandfather John.  After serving in the British Royal Air Force during World War I, Bayard return
s to Mississippi and has various misadventures, crashing his fast new car before dying while test-piloting a new plane.  This is a brief sketch of, for 10 points, what 1929 William Faulkner novel?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sartoris}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Among the less well-known scientific e
ndeavors of this man include his record-setting balloon flights, by which he established that the magnetic intensity and atmospheric composition of the earth was constant. Others include his discovery and naming of the element boron with Jacques Thenardin
 
1813, and his 1805 collaboration with Alexander von Humboldt to discover the exact proprtions of hydrogen and oxygen in water. For 10 points name this French chemist, best known for determining that gases combine in very simple proportion, the law named f
or him.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Joseph-Louis }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Guy-Lussac}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4. The son a wealthy Austrian steelmaker, this man studied mathematics under Bertrand Russell before serving as an artillery officer in World War I, where he wrote his first major work, }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus}{
\expnd0\expndtw-2 
. After the war he spent ten years as an elementary school teacher, clarinettist, and architect before returning to Cambridge to resume his philosphical studies, and he taught there from 1929 to shortly before his death from cancer in 1949. For 10 points 
name this philospher famous for his exploration of language and the limits of what can be said in such works as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Philosophical Investigations}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 . 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Ludwig }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Wittgenstein}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 5. Under the leadership of future Hall of Famers Cy Denneny and Frank Nighbor this 
hockey team won the Stanley Cup in 1920, 1921, and 1927. It has yet to win a cup since, however, the longest drought in NHL history, though the team does have the excuse of having not been in existence from 1935 to 1992. For 10 points name this Canadian h
ockey team, whose current players include Daniel Alfredsson and and Alexander Daigle.
\par \tab Answer: Ottowa }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Senators}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 6. This man, whosenickname comes from the Belgian city in which he was born, so badly handled his command of the English army that his brother ha
d to resume command from his sickbed.  After the death of his brother and father he became regent to young Richard II, and despite his unpoularity and association with John Wycliffe, he retained a position of influence in Richard's court until his death i
n 1399. For 10 points name this father of Henry IV.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 John of Gaunt}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  (ask for more info on Duke of }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lancaster)}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 7. This book begins with an introduction in which Almustafa, the title character, prepares to return by ship to his native land after spending twelve years in the city of Orphalese, whose inhabitants have come to love and revere him.  Before embarking, Al
mustafa's friend Almitra persuades him to talk of life, and twenty-six essays on various aspects of life follow. This is, for 10 points, a brief description of what 1923 novel, the most famous of Kahlil Gibran?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Prophet}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 8. In 1874 Othmar Ziedle
r first obtained this chemical by treating chloral with chlorobenzene and sulfuric acid, though its most famous properties were discovered by Paul Mueller in 1939 for which he later won the Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine in 1948. Apparently acting
 as a nerve poison, this substance is highly effective at temporarily exterminating insect populations.  For 10 points, name this pesticide, also known as dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 D.D.T.}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  (accept dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane before the last clue)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 9. From his position at the head of the Frankfurt Opera this composer attempted to restore tonality to popular music and was a pioner of "gebrauchsmusik", Utility Music for everyday occasions. A prevalent themes in his music are the instabi
lity of artists thir precarious position of the artist in society, embodied in such works as "The Young Maid" the opera }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Cardillac}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
. For 10 points name this composer, hated by the Nazis for the social criticism in his most famous work, }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mathis the Painter}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Paul }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hindemith}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 10. Located at a site known by the modern name of Tell As-Sultan, explorations conducted here by a team led by Kathleen Kenyon in the 1950's revealed that as early as 9000 B.C. there was a walled city enclosing a spring whose inhabit
ants engaged in trade. Abandoned by 6000 B.C., the site was re-occupied intermittently by nomads and, later, by the Canaanites, who were in the city during its most famous event. For 10 points name this town, one of the oldest in the world, reputedly dest
royed by Joshua.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jericho}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 11. After passing the bar in 1850 this man was active in the Whig Party but chose to run for the House of Representatives from New York as a Republican in 1858, seving six years there before a successful run for the Senate
 in 1867. A leader of the Radical Republicans, he later became famous for upholding the spoils system as head of the "Stalwart" Republicans and for opposing civil service reform. For 10 points name this man, the political rival of James G. Blaine.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Roscoe }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Conkling}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 12. He was the father by Iphemedia of the twins Otus and Ephialtes who tried to storm Olympus by stacking Mt. Pelion and Mt. Ossa and later stuffed Ares in a bronze jar for a year.  For 10 points, identify this Greek god whose other child
ren include Rhode, Benthesicyme, and Triton by his wife Amphitrite.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Poseidon}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 
\par 13. In later life he directed for television, wrote the novel }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Notebooks of Captain George}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and the play }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Orvet}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and made such forgettable films as }{
\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Diary of a Chambermaid}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Woman on the Beach}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .  He began making films in 1932 with }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Night at the Crossroards}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
, followed by such works as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Human Beast}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Madame Bovary}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Rules of the Game}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
. For 10 points name this French director, also famous for }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Grand Illusion}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jean Renoir}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 14. Through the efforts of such patrons as Pliny the Younger and Septicius Clarus, this man entered the service of the Emperor Hadrian and under him was made Master of the Imperial Archives and Imperial Librarian. 
In 122 he was dismissed from the Emperor's service due to informalities he had supposedly made with the Empress, but he used his free time to do research for works like }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Concerning Illustrious Men}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
 and for the series of biographies for which is chiefly remembered. For 10 points name this author of }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Lives of the Caesars}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2   \tab Answer: Gaius }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Suetonius}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  Tranquillus
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 15. In 1930 this man recieved a doctorate for the University of Vienna for his "Comleteness" Proof, which demonstrated the valodity of logical rules. His
 next major achievement was his "Incompleteness" Proof, which stated that any procedure for proving the truths of any number theory will be incomplete, though he is best known for his contribution to the theory of axioms. for 10 points name this scientist
, written about by Douglas Hofsteder along with Escher and Bach.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Kurt }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Goedel}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 16. This island nation is composed of the main island in addition to Rodrigues, Agalega, and Cargados Carajos islands and is about 788 square miles in size.  First discovered in the 1500's by the Portuguese, in the 1700's it was occupied by the Dutch, who
 
named it after a Prince.  Though it was later renamed "Ile de France" while under of the control of the French, like its neighbor Reunion, it has since reverted to its original name. For 10 points name this island covered almost entirely by sugar cane, it
s chief export, whose capital is Port Louis.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mauritius}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 17. Born in India in 1811, on the death of his father in 1816 this man was sent to England, where he studied at Oxford before becoming a journalist in 1837. After contributing articles to }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Punch}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{
\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Fraser's Magazine}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  using such creative pseudonyms as Ikey Solomon and Michaelangelo Titmarsh he began publishing his own works, such as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Book Of Snobs}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{
\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Memoirs of Barry Lyndon}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The History of Henry Esmond, Esq.}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 . For 10 points name this author best known for }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Vanity Fair}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .

\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: William Makepeace }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Thackeray}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 18. After recieving a law degree from Stockholm University this man earned a doctorate in economics, and his work in the field resulted in his earning a Professorship at the Institute of 
International Studies at Geneva. Although his early work, as expressed in his }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Monetary Equilibrium}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , was in pure theory, he later switched his focus to applied economics with such works  as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 
An American Dilemma: The Negrom Problem and Modern Democracy}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 . For 10 points name this economist, winner of the 1974 Nobel Prize in Economics with Friedrich Heyek.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Gunnar }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Myrdal}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page 19. This man's criminal career began at the age of 10, and by thirty-eight he had been convicted of theft ten separate times. He had als
o become a writer, penning such early works as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Miracle of the Rose}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Our Lady of the Flowers}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and  }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Funeral Rites}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
, which described the seamy side of Paris, as well as the Absurdist Plays  }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Deathwatch}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Maids}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 . For 10 points name this playwright, whose othoer works, such as }{
\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Balcony}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Blacks}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Jean }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Genet}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 20. One of the earliest sucessful applications of the Eightfold Way was its use to discover the eta variety of this particle. Varying in mass between 140 MeV to 10 GeV, these are composed 
of quarks and anti-quarks, and other varieties include the pi, which are responsible for the stronmg interaction between protons and neutrons in the nucleus, and K, whose competing decay rates have led to a better understanding of parity. For 1- points na
me these particles, for whose prediction Yukawa Hidecki won the Nobel Prize in 1935.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 mesons}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 21. In 1971 a book of the photographs taken by this woman while working as a publicity agent for the Works Progress Administration was published. Thirty years earlier she published her first collection of short stories, }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 
A Curtain of Green}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , follwed by such novels as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Delta Wedding}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Ponder Heart}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Optimist's Daughter}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
, for which she won a Pulitzer Prize in 1972. For 10 points name this Mississippi-born author perphaps best known for }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Robber Bridegroom}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Eudora }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Welty}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 22. Born in 1892, this man originally studied philosophy and history but later turned to physics after working in his brother's lab.  After becoming familiar with the quantum th
eories of Planck and Einstein's work on the photoelectric effect and special relativity, he postulated the idea that matter, like light, also behaves as both a particle and a wave. For 10 points name this French scientist, whose explanation of the wave-li
ke properties of matter won him the Nobel Prize in 1929.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Prince Louis Victor de }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Broglie}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 23.
\par 24. This soldier played an instrumental role in quashing the rebellions of Abner and led the attack on Jerusalem.  When David ordered him to arrange the de
ath of Uriah, he obeyed without question. Despite such loyal service, his ambition proved to be too much for David, who ordered his son Solomon to kill him before dying himself. For 10 points name this ruthless Biblical soldier, murderer of Abner, Amasa, 
and Absolom.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Joab}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par One, created by songwriters Tony Iommi and Geezer Butler, is  an and
roid whose time-travelling efforts to save the human race go unappreciated, causing him to become a killing machine. Quite a contrast is the creation of Stan Lee, a millionaire and superhero who uses technology to restore a damaged heart and to fight crim
e. For 10 points give the common name of a famous Black Sabbath song and the armor-wearing alter-ego of Tony Stark.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Iron Man
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par First discovereds in 1801 by Charles Hatchett in 1801, this element was given its current name by Heinrinch Rose, who sepa
rated it from tantalum in 1844.  Extremely useful industrially, it is added to iron to make stainless steel and is used in vacuum tubes, nucelar reactors, and superconductors. For 10 points name this element, atomic number 41, still commonly referred to a
s Columbium.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Niobium
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par After serving as the military attache to Petrogtad and Helsinki during World War I this man assisted in relief work in Russia and later acted as a diplomat for the British. Returning to Norway in 1931, he became Minister of De
fense but resigned to form a Norwegian Fascist party in 1933, and when Hitler invaded Norway by his urging he was given control of the country. For 10 points name this man, executed for treason in 1945, whose name has become a synonym for "traitor".

\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Vidkun Quisling
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par The main character of this novel is a patriarch who has devoted his own life and the education of his children to hard facts and figures instead of emotion.  Raised by this system, his son Tom becomes a cold, calculating thief who steal
s from his employer, Mr. Bounderby, and frames another employee for the theft, while his daughter, Louisa, is so starved for affection that she almost cheats on her husband and runs off with another man. This is a description of, for 10 points, what Charl
es Dickens novel, centered around the family of Thomas Gradgrind?
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hard Times}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page }{\b\expnd0\expndtw-2 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Univ. of Memphis
\par }{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 1. Name the following World War One battles from a brief description, 10 points each. 
\par 1. In this May 31, 1916 battle the fleets of German Admiral Reinhard Scheer and British Admiral John Jellicoe fought to a draw, with both sides claiming victory, though the Germans retreated.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jutland}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  (accept Skagerrac)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Fought between September 26-November 11, 1918, in this bat
tle forces under John J. Pershing stopped just short of pushing into Germany proper. Named for the two landmarks through which allied forces pushed, it was here that Sgt.  Alvin York captured 132 germans.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Muese}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  River-}{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Argonne}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  Forest
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Fought from 
April 25, 1915 to November 22, this battle was notable for the lack of organisation on the part of the allies under Sir Ian Hamilton and for the sprited resistance of Ottoman soldiers under Kemel Atatturk, resulting in a stalemate between Central and Alli
ed Powers.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Gallipoli }{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 2. Identify the following Russian authors from a brief list of 
\par works, 10 points each; if you need more works, you'll only get 5 points.
\par 1. 10 pts: The story collection }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Evenings on a Farm Near Dkanka}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , the stories "The Overcoat" and "The Nose"
\par \tab 5 pts: The play }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Government Inspector}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , the novel }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Dead Souls}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Nikolai }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Gogol}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. 10 pts: The Novels }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Insulted and The Injured}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 House of The Dead}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 
The Possessed}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par \tab 5 pts: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Crime and Punishment}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Brothers Karamatzov}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Fyodor }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Doestoyevski}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. 10 pts: The plays }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mozart and Salieri}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Feast In the Time of Plague}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 
The Queen of Spades}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par \tab 5 pts: The epics }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Boris Gudunov}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Eugene Onegin}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Aleksandr }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Pushkin}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 3. Given a brief description identify the following animals with rather scary names, 10 points each.
\par 1. These monotremes are mainly found near Australia. Range from 18 to 31 inches in length, they have long pig-like snouts and are covered with sharp spines.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Echidna }{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Found in Indonesia, these reptiles can attain a l
ength of three feet and can weigh up to 135 pounds. They feed on carrion for they most part, though they have been known to eat members of their own species and humans.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Komodo}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  Dragon
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Found in the southwest U.S. and Northern Mexico, these reptil
es usually attain lengths of 20 inches and are colored with black, yellow, and pink bands.  They are known for their strong bite and for exuding nerve poisons.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Gila}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  Monster
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 4. While much contemporary music can be accused of being unintelligible, in a few cases popular songs have employed words which were literally nonsense. Given a brief description of the gibberish used as lyrics, quote it, 10 points each. 
\par 1. Legend has it that vocalist Doug Ingle was tripping on LSD when he recorded this song, 
slurring the words which were actually describing the Garden of Eden. For 10 points give the seven syllable phrase, the refrain and title of Iron Butterfly's most famous song.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Inna Gadda DaVida (in-ah-gah-dah-dah-vee-dah) 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Paul Simon quotes thi
s nonsensical phrase in the Simon and Garfunkel tune "Mrs. Robinson." For an additional 10 points give this four syllable phrase originally sung by John Lennon in the Beatles song "I Am the Walrus."
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2  \tab Answer: Goo Goo Ga Joob (spelled as it sounds)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Rappe
r Snoop Doggy Dogg has made extensive use of this phrase in such songs as "What's My Name?" For a Final 10 points give this nine syllable phrase originally coined by George Clinton in "Atomic Dog."
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Bow Wow Wow Yippie Yo Yippie Yay
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page 5. Answer the f
ollowing questions from Greek mythology, 10 poionts each.  1. As punishment for denying the divinity of Artemis, king Oeneus was sent this animal, which ravaged the countryside until a gathering of mythology's most famnous heroes came to hunt it. 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Calydonian Boar}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. The first to wound this animal was this fleet-footed woman, who later became famous for challenging wood-be suitors to a race for her hand.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Atalanta}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
3. This man, the son of Oeneus, killed the animal, and gave the head and hide to Atalanta; when his uncles protested his giving these spoils to a woman, he killed them and was in turn killed by his own mother, who burned a log which held his life-force. 

\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Meleager}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 6. Identify the organic compounds from a description, 10 points each. 
\par 1. A series of hydrocarbons containing one or mor pairs of carbon atoms linked by triple bonds; acetylene is an example.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Alkyne}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. carbonyl group in which the carbon atom is covalently bonded to an Oxygen with the other bonds to carbon or hydrocarbon radicals; acetone is an example.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ketone}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. An unsaturated hydrocarbon containing one or more pairs of carbon atoms linked by double bonds; ethylene is an example.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Alkene}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 7. Answer the following questions about man's ancestors, 10 points each. 
\par 1. In 1925 Raymond Dart discovered the remains of this animal, a gracile variety of hominid which stood about three fet tall with a brain capacity of about 500 cubic centimeters. It is from this creature that man is thought to descend.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Australopithecus africanus}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  (prompt on "Australopithecus" 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. In 1978 Donald Johannsen discovered the remains of a female of this species, which he named "Lucy" and which is considered the ancestor of A. africanus.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Australopithecus }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 afarensis}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. In addition to the discovery of Australopithecus boisei in the Olduvai Gorge, Louis Leakey found and named this creature, whose anatomical endowments would have given it 
superior cognitive abilities. It is now wiodely considered to be the earliest example of genus Homo.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Homo habilis}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 8. In the quest for independence from Great Britain the nascent U.S. enlisted the aid of several foreigners. Given a brief description name the foreigner who aided in the Revolutionary War, 10 points each.
\par 1. This Prussian soldier emigrated to the U.S., where he helped train the Continental Army.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: "Baron" Friedrich Wilhelm von }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Steuben}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2.  This Polish officer was made Washington's chief of cavalry and fought in such battles as Brandywine and germantown.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Casimir }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Pulaski}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. This French sailor fougt the British in the West Indies and captured Tobago, but is best known for cutting off the Chesapeake from the British fleet, b
ringing about the surrender at Yorktown.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Francois-Joseph-Paul de }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Grasse}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 9. Identify the following contemporaries of William Shakespeare from clues on a 5-10-15 point basis.
\par 5 pts: Works of this playwright include Volpon and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Alchemist}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ben Jonson}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 10 pts: This tragedian wrote such grisly works as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The White Devil}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The
\par Duchess of Malfi}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: John }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Webster}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 15 pts: This playwright collaborated with Shakespeare on }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Henry VIII}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Two Noble Kinsmen}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
, but is best remembered for writning suich works as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Phylaster}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Maids Tragedy}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  with his partner Francis Beaumont.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: John }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Fletcher}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page 10. This bonus will test your knowledge of Witchcraft. Answer the following questions concerning witchcraft, 10 points each.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-10656\li10656\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 1. In response to 
a papal bull from Pope Innocent VIII condemning heresy and witchcraft, two German priests named Johann Spengler and Heinrich Kraemer wrote this book, which gives information of witchcraft and how to deal with it.  
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Malleus Maleficarum}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  (accept }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Witch Hammer}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  or Hammer of Witches)
\par 2. The major holidays and gatherings of witches are known by this name.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sabbat}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  (accept Witches' Sabbath, Black Sabbath) 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Perhaps the best known sabbat, this occurs on the eve of May 1st, the day of a canonised Ge
rman abbess, and witches dfrom all over are supposed to gather on the Henz mountains during it.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Walpurgisnacht}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 11. Identify the following part of the brain from a description, 10 points each.  1. Located on the diencephalon between the cerebrum a
nd the midbrain, all sensation save that of smell is sent to this structure, which is supposed to be the place where pain is felt and the seat of consciousness.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Thalamus}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Located on the third convolution of the left frontal lobe of the cerebral 
cortex, this area is believed to be the center of speech and was named for the French surgeon who first postulated its function.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Broca's}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  region
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
3. This network of nerve fibers controls the electrical activity of the central nervous system. It also plays an important role in sleep by diverting signal to or away from the cerebral cortex.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Reticular}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  formation
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 12. Many people regard the numbe
r 13 as unlucky, but for musicians the unlucky number is apparently Nine. Given the description of a musician whose Ninth symphony is the last he wrote, name him on a 5-10-15 basis.  5 pts: This composer's Ninth Symphony, the Choral, was written while he 
was completely deaf, and it contains excerpts from Schiller's "Ode to Joy".
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Ludwig van }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Beethoven}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 10 pts: This composer fininshed his Ninth Symphony in E-Minor, "From the New World", shortly before his death.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Anton }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Dvorak}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 15 pts: His Ninth symphony, a gloomy, morbid piece, was his last. He is better
\par known for his second Symphony, the "London", and for such operas as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hugh the
\par Drover}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Poisoned Kiss}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Ralph }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Vaughan Williams}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 13. After the death of Alexander the Great, many of his 
relatives and Generals fought for control of his Empire in what has come to be known as the Wars of the Diodochi. Ultimately, his empire was divided into three parts, with the descendants of three generals forming ruling dynasties there. Given the divisio
n of the Empire, name the }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 family}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  who came to rule it, 10 points each.
\par 1. Macedonia
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Antigonids}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  (accept reasonable equivalents)
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Asia Minor
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Seleucids}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Egypt
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ptolemids
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 14. Identify the following American literary figures from works, 10 points each.
\par 1. The plays }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 What Price Glory?}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Winterset}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mary of Scotland}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Maxwell Anderson}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. The novels }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Triumph of the Egg}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Many Marriages}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and the collection }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 
Winesburg, Ohio}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Robert }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sherwood}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The plays }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Abe Lincoln in Illinois}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Petrified Forest}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Idiot's
\par Delight}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Sherwood Anderson}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par \page 15. Answer the following questions about the Sun, 10 points each.
\par 1. At its source about 1,800,000 degrees Farenheit, this outer layer of the sun extends out to Jupiter and is responsible for solar wind.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Corona}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. This layer extends from the photosphere into the corona and is about 36,000 degrees fahrenheit. Nor
mally invisible, this layer brieflt becomes visile during eclipses, displaing the brilliant crimson color from which its name derives.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Chromosphere}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. The upper chromosphere consists entirely of these jets of gas, which eminatre from the less-dense gas of the lower chromosphere. They resemble spikes, from which they got their name.

\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Spicules}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 16. Identify the following island nation from a brief description for 10 points each or from their capitals for five.
\par 10 pts: Lying in the Indian Ocean, this nation is composed of two noncontiguous segments, this nation is bordered by Thailand and Brunei to the North, Singapore to the South, and by the Indian Ocean to the East.
\par 5 pts: Kuala Lampur
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Malaysia}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 10 pts: This nation is composed of 130
0 islands and atolls in the Indian Ocean.  Its inhabitants speak an Indo European dialect called Divehi, and make their living from tourism, shipping, and boatbuilding.
\par  5 pts: Male
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Maldives}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 10 pts: Composed of two islands, Gozo and Comino, in add
ition to the main island, inhabitants of this island speak a dialect of Arabic written in a Latin script. They make their living from tourism and shipping.
\par  5 pts: Villetta
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Malta}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 17. Name the following Nazis from a brief description, 10 points each.
\par 1. A longtime friend and confidante of Hitler, this man organised the S.A.  before being murdered by Hitler during the Night of the Long Knives in 1934.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Ernst }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Roehm}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. While in prison Hitler dictated }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Mein Kampf}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  to this man, who later became hi
s personal secretary. He is best known for stupidly parachuting onto British soil to negotiate a treaty with England, whereupon he was promptly captured and imprisoned.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Rudolf }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Hess}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
3. This man was given control of the S.S. in 1929, and it was he who founded the Gestapo and organised the Concentration Camps. After the war he was captured by the Allies but killed himself in prison.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Heinrich }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Himmler}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 18. There are ordinary inventions, and then there are inventions which win their inventors Nobel Prizes. Give its inventor or inventors and the year it won, name the invention, 10 points each.
\par 1. 1956, Walter Brattain, William Bardeen, John Shockley
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 transistor}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. 1971, Dennis Gabor
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 hologram}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. 1939, Ernest O. Lawrence
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 cyclotron}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par 19. This bonus will test your knowledge of the plays of Henrik Ibsen. Given a brief synopsis, name the play, 10 points each.
\par 1. This play features the family of Hjalmar Ekdal, whose
 father was ruined by the father of his best friend, Gregers Werle. Devoted to his wife and daughter, Hedvig, in the climax of the play Ekdal discovers that the older Werle is in fact Hedvig's father, and the girl kills herself.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Wild Duck}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. I
n this play the painter Oswald Alving returns home from Paris to recuperate from a mysterious ailment and to woo Regina, a servant girl. In the end he discovers that both the disese and Regina are the products of his father's sleeping around, and he loses
 both the girl and his sanity.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Ghosts}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
3. In this play a doctor named Thomas Stockmann earns the emnity of a Norwegian town when he reveals to them that their medicinal baths, which generates the tourism on which their economy is based, is toxic.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 An Enemy of the People}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page 20. Given a ist of artists, name the artistic movement to which they belonged, 5 points each. 
\par 1. Jean Arp, Max Ernst, Marcel Duchamp
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Dada}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Theo Van Doesburg, Piet Mondrian
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: de }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Stijl}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Georges Braque, Juan Gris, Pablo Picasso
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Cubism}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 4. Henri Matisse, Maurice de Vlaminck, Andre Derain
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Fauvism}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 5. Salvidor Dali, Rene Magritte
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Surrealism}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 6. Jackson Pollack, William De Kooning
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Abstract Expressionism}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  or Action Painting
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par Name the psychologist from works, 5 points each.
\par 1. The Psychology of Everyday Living
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Sigmund }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Freud}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Principles of Psychology
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: William }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 James}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Understanding Human Nature
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Alfred }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Adler}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 4. }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Walden II}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: B.F. }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Skinner}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 5. }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Psychological Types}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Carl }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Jung}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 6. }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Productive Thinking}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Max }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Wertheimer}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par Given its neighbors identify the South American nation, 10 points each. If you need the capital, you'll only get 5 points.
\par 10 pts: Brazil, Peru, Paraguay, Chile, Argentina
\par  5 pts: La Paz and Sucre
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Bolivia}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 10 pts: Ecuador, Panama, Venezuela, Brazil, Peru
\par  5 pts: Bogata
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Colombia}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 10 pts: French Guiana, Suriname, Guyana, Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia,
\par Paraguay, Argentina, Uruguay 
\par  5 pts: Brasilia
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Brazil}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par As everyone knows by now, the re-release of }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Star Wars}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  saw some new footage added, including some of Jabba the Hut. In honor of this, answer the following about Jabba, 10 points each.
\par 1. In }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Return of the Jedi}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , this irritating creature hangs about Jabba and laughs at all his jokes, but after he tampers with C-3P0 he is given an electrical shock by R2D2.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Salacious}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  Crumb
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. This unfortunate crony of Jabba is sent to bring in Han Solo at the Mos Eisley cantina, but is instead shot dead by him.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Greedo}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Also making his first appearance in the re-released }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Star Wars}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
 is this bounty hunter, who transports the carbonite-frozen Han Solo to Jabba in }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Empire Strikes Back}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  before being eaten by the sarlac in }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Return of the Jedi}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Boba Fett}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par Place the following substances in order from softest to hardest on the Mohs Scale, 5 points per correct answer. The substances are: corundrum, gypsum, topaz, talc, diamond, quartz.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 talc, gypsum, quartz, topaz, corundrum, diamond}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page Given a brief description of a barbarian tribe, name it, 10 points each.  
\par 1. In the fifth century this tribe sacked Rome and conquered North Africa, which they ruled until it was re-conquered by Belisarius. Popular opinion aside, they appear to have been no more destructive than any other invading barbarian tribe.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Vandals}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. In their heydey in the sixth century this tribe ruled much of what is now Spain and Portugal before being absorbed by the Moors. They are mosyt fam
ous for their 410 sack of Rome under Alaric.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Visgoths}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. This tribe oiinhabited much of Northen Europe, includijng much of what is now Northen Germany. In 409 they conquered England, for which they are famous.
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Saxons}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par Name the author from clues, 30-20-10.
\par 30 pts: This author published her first collection of stories, }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Troll Garden}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
, while a teacher. Its success led to her appointment as managing editor of McClure's magazine, which she left in 1912 to devote herself to novels, publishing }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Alexander's Bridge}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , her first, that year.
\par 20 pts: Later works include }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 One of Ours}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , for which she won a Pulitzer Prize, }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Obscure Destinies}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 , and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Song of the Lark}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par 10 pts: She is best known for such works as }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 O, Pioneers!}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 My Antonia}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 .
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Willa }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Cather}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par Identify the German director from films, 10 points each.
\par 1. }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Last Laugh}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Nosferatu}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: F.W. Murnau
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Vampyr}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 The Passion of Joan of Arc}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Carl Dreyer
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Testament of Dr. Mabuse}{\expnd0\expndtw-2  and Metropolis
\par nswer: Fritz Lang
\par 
\par Given a Civil War battle and the victorious general, name the losing General, five points each.
\par 1. Pea Ridge, Union General Samuel Curtis
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Earl van Dorn
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Kinesaw Mountain, Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: William T. Sherman
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Vicksburg, Union General Ulysses Grant
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: William Pemberton
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 4. First Mannassas, Confederate General P.G.T. Beauregard
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Irwin McDowell
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 5. Shiloh, Union General Ulysses Grant
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Braxton Bragg
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 6. Fredericksburg, Confederate General Robert E. Lee
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Ambrose Burnside
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \page Given a list of characters, name the William Shakespeare play from which each comes, 5 points each. 
\par 1. Sir Toby Belch, Malvolio, Sebastian
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: }{\ul\expnd0\expndtw-2 Twelfth Night}{\expnd0\expndtw-2 
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 2. Leontes, Polixenes, Hermione
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Winter's Tale
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 3. Junius Brutus, Tullus Aufidius, Virgillia
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Coriolanus
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 4. Touchstone, Oliver, Rosalind
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: As You Like It
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 5. Portia, Antonio, Jessica
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: Merchant of Venice
\par }\pard \qj\nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 6. The Earl of Gloucester, Edgar, Cordelia
\par }\pard \qj\fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\expnd0\expndtw-2 \tab Answer: King Lear
\par }}