{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min52}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3069}{\nofchars17495}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws21485}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000000000}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by Ohio State
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  When his tribe was ordered out of Illinois and into Iowa in 1828 in accordance with an 1804 treaty, he renounced the treaty and led his band back across the Mississippi to their old lands for Spring pl
antings the next three years.  But in 1832, a military force, which included Zachary Taylor, Jefferson Davis, and Abraham Lincoln, met his band, chased them into Wisconsin, and massacred them at Bad Axe River.  FTP, name this Sauk & Fox chief whose name i
s attached to this conflict.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Black Hawk}{\f0  (War)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  Granddaughter of Helios and priestess of Hecate, she had a son by King Aegeus of Athens and almost incited Aegeus to kill his son Theseus, while Aegeus was still ignorant of who Theseus was.  FTP, 
name this princess of Colchis and subject of a Euripides play, whose other exploits include murdering her half-brother Absyrtus and her two sons by Jason.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Medea}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  Just after their engagement party in the village of Grand-Pre, a man and his beloved are separated during their eviction by the British--he is sent to Louisiana, and she is sent to New England.  They spend years unsuccessfully searching for each other
, and they are only reunited when the man Gabriel Lejeunesse dies of the plague in Philadelphia many years later, with her as his nurse.  She dies soon after, and they are buried together.  This is the plot of, FTP, what 1847 Longfellow poem?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  '}{\f0\ul Evangeline}{\f0 , A Tale of Arcadie'
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  Discovered by Berzelius in 1835 by the dry distillation of tartaric acid, it can be formed from proteins by deamination, and from glycogen and glucose by means of glycolysis.  It also can give rise to glycogen by the revers
al of glycolysis, gluconeogenesis.  FTP, name this organic acid, CH3COCOOH, which occupies a central position in metabolism.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul pyruvic}{\f0  acid (ask for more on }{\f0\ul pyruvate}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  The son of a poor Protestant minister, he nonetheless learned all the major 
European languages plus ancient Greek, and retired at age 41 after amassing a fortune in foreign trade to move to Greece and pursue his passion for Homer.  He effectively discovered the pre-Classical Greek civilization in his excavations at Orchomenos, Ma
rathon, Tiryns, and Mycenae.  FTP, name this German archaeologist, most famous for his excavations at Hissarlik, Turkey. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Heinrich }{\f0\ul Schliemann}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6.  Born in 1891, he became an army general by 1927 and participated in the 1930 coup that ousted Presid
ent Horacio Vasquez.  Elected president later in 1930, he held that title until 1938, and again from 1942 to 1952, but he retained total control until his assassination in 1961.  FTP, name this dictator who renamed his capital city of Santo Domingo after 
himself.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Rafael }{\f0\ul Trujillo}{\f0  Molina
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  A Mannerist in both his painting and his architecture, his works in Florence include a series of paintings celebrating the Medici in the Palazzo Vecchio, the remodeling of Santa Croce and Santa Maria Novella, an
d the Uffizzi Gallery. FTP, name this Renaissance artist, architect, and author of "Lives of the Most Eminent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Giorgio }{\f0\ul Vasari}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  A French Protestant, he emigrated to England after the revocation of the Edict 
of Nantes.  Elected to the Royal Society, he helped decide the Newton/Leibniz controversy over the discovery of calculus in Newton's favor. His 1718 "The Doctrine of Chances" was one of the first important probability texts, and it included his discovery 
of the normal approximation to the binomial distribution.  FTP, name this mathematician, best known now for his formula for the powers of a complex number.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Abraham }{\f0\ul De Moivre}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  Drafted in the 12th round of the 1948 NFL draft by the Chicago Bears 
out of the University of Kentucky, he retired in 1959 after playing less than he wanted at his preferred position--quarterback.  He left retirement a year later to sign with the AFL's Houston Oilers, and with them set the record for pass attempts in a gam
e, 68, a record that still stands.  FTP, name this football player who also holds NFL career records in points and games, and who retired from the Oakland Raiders in 1975 at age 48.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul Blanda}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 10.  His short stories are noted for their sardonic
, biting tone and their aggressively negative characterization of the wealthy, including such works as the mock fable "Ants and the Grasshopper."  Perhaps his best-known short story focuses on the thoughts rushing through the mind of a condemned spy in th
e moment before his execution by hanging.  FTP, identify this author of "An Occurrance at Owl Creek Bridge."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Ambrose }{\f0\ul Bierce}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  Born in LeMans, France, he was the son of William the Conqueror's granddaughter and Geoffrey, Duke of Anjou.  During h
is reign, he expanded the use of royal, as opposed to feudal, legal authority, and thus helping to develop English Common Law.  FTP, name this English king, who succeeded his cousin Stephen and who was succeeded by his two of his sons by Eleanor of Aquita
ine.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Henry II}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12.  In 1975 a cluster of disease cases first diagnosed as rheumatoid arthiritis appeared in Connecticut.  In 1982, microbiologists determined that the disease was actually caused by the spirochete }{\f0\ul Borrelia burgdorferi}{\f0  which enters h
umans via the bites of deer ticks.  FTP, name this disease named for the Connecticut town where it first appeared.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Lyme}{\f0  disease
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  Educated at the Jansenist school of Port-Royal, his first two tragedies, "La Thebaide" and "Alexandre le grande", were produced by Moliere.  In 1677, he was appointed historiographer to Louis XIV, and thereafter only wrote two plays, "Esther" and "At
halie", both for the girls school of Saint-Cyr.  FTP, name this French dramatist of "Bajazet", "Berenice",  "Iphigenie en Aulide", and "Phedre". 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jean }{\f0\ul Racine}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  Rising in the Kunlun Mountains, this river flows northeast, makes a U-turn south thr
ough Inner Mongolia, and northeast again to the sea.  In 1949, the river underwent a major course change, and it now empties into the Gulf of Zhili, rather than 250 miles away on the other side of the Shandong Peninsula. It has the fastest growing delta i
n the world, thanks to the loess (LOW-ess) soil it passes through.  FTP, name this river which is known as "The Sorrow of China" because of its frequent and devastating floods.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Yellow}{\f0  River or }{\f0\ul Hwang Ho}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Huang He}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15.  Passed on December 11, 1931, it abolished the authority of the English Parliament over legislation of dominion parliaments, and ruled that no statute passed by the English Parliament had authority in a dominion unless expressly requested.  FTP, name 
this statute which granted legislative independence to the
\par British dominions and created the Commonwealth of Nations.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Statute of  }{\f0\ul Westminster}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  They are: Dukkha, that man suffers from one life to the next; Samudaya, that the origin of suffering
 is craving; Nirodha, that the cure for craving is non-attachment; and Magga, that the way to non-attachment is the Eightfold path.  FTP, what is the collective term for these central teachings of Buddhism?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Four Noble Truths}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17.  The illegitimat
e son of a Georgian prince, he became a leading teacher at St. Petersburg's Medico-Surgical Academy in 1862.  Preoccupied with work in his lab, he was never able to spend much time on composing--he worked on the opera "Prince Igor" for 18 years but never 
finished it.  FTP, name this Russian composer of the dance suite "Polovtsian Dances" and the symphonic poem "In the Steppes of Central Asia", and member of The Five.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Aleksandr }{\f0\ul Borodin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18.  Artificial satellites are not affected by this boundary, b
ecause they are too small to develop substantial tidal stresses.  The rings of Saturn are inside it, and could be the debris of a demolished moon.  No rocky or icy moon with a diameter greater than 40 km could exist or be formed within this limit.  FTP, n
ame this closest distance a satellite can orbit to its primary planet without being tidally disrupted, named for the French astronomer who first calculated it in 1850.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Roche}{\f0  limit
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  This play's title character has his property confiscated after
 refusing to pay a tax to defend the island from the Turks.  After his daughter Abigail seeks refuge in a nunnery, he poisons them all and strangles the friar who converted his daughter.  He allies himself with the Turks and assists them in taking the cit
y, but later meets a gruesome end by falling into a cauldron of boiling oil. FTP, name this play which centers around the merchant Barabas, written around 1589 by Christopher Marlowe.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: "The }{\f0\ul Jew of Malta}{\f0 "
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 20.  Founded by R. Douglas Stuart, Jr., in S
eptember 1940, its membership reportedly reached 800,000.  It won the editorial support of the Heast newspaper chain, and its members included Senators Burton Wheeler & Gerald Nye, Charles Lindbergh, and a healthy dose of anti-Semites and Nazi sympathizer
s.  FTP, name this isolationist group which fought the Lend-Lease Act and any other effort to entagle the US in World War II before Pearl Harbor.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul America First}{\f0  Committee
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 
\par 21.  She received a degree in Medieval literature from Oxford in 1915, one of the first women to graduate from there.  She worked in an advertising agency for a time, which is where she set her 1933 _Murder Must Advertise_.  She wrote religious works incl
uding the play "The Man Born to Be King" and the essay
\par "Creed or Chaos", as well as an unfinished translation of the _Divine Comedy_. FTP, name this author of _Unnatural Death_, _Nine Tailors_, _Strong Poison_, and _Whose Body?_, which introduced Lord Peter Wimsey.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Dorothy }{\f0\ul Sayers}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  Taken from his parents at birth by his grandmother, she gave him as a tutor the Swiss philosophe La Harpe, trying to train him to be an "ideal" ruler.  He ascended to the throne in 1801 upon the murder of his father w
ith high hopes of reforming his country, but 24 years of indecisive reform policies led to the Decembrist revolt upon his death.  FTP, name this Russian czar, the grandson of Catherine the Great, who played a leading role in Napoleon's defeat.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Alexander I}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23.  Situated in the Asiatic portion of the Great Rift Valley, this lake is 13 miles long and 7.5 miles wide, with an area of 64 sqaure miles.  It lies 696 feet below sea level, and fishing has been important here since ancient times. The larges
t town on its shore is Tiberias, and it is also called Lake Tiberias. FTP, name this lake, prominent in the New Testament, which is fed and drained by the Jordan River.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Sea of Galilee}{\f0  (also accept }{\f0\ul Lake Tiberias}{\f0  or the }{\f0\ul Sea of Tiberias}{\f0  on an early buzz)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24.  Their name was first given to them by a French musical journal in 1920.  They were: Louis Durey, Germaine Tailleferre, Georges Auric, Arthur Honegger, Darius Milhaud, and Francis Poulenc.  FTP, name this group of composers inspired by the work o
f Jean Cocteau and Erik Satie.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Les Six}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul The Six}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Ohio State
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. Given information about their suicide, identify the author who did themselves in FTPE, or FFPE if you need works.
\par 1. 10:  While returning from a Guggenheim Fellowship in Mexico, he jumped overboard on April 27, 1932, and drowned.
\par 5: "For the Marriage of Faustus and Helen", "The Bridge"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Hart }{\f0\ul Crane}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10:  He died November 22, 1916 in Glen Allen, California from an overdose of morphine.
\par 5: }{\f0\ul The Sea Wolf}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jack }{\f0\ul London}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10:  A believer in voluntary euthanasia, he and his wife committed suicide together on March 3, 1983.
\par 5:  }{\f0\ul Darkness at Noon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arthur }{\f0\ul Koestler}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  Identify the authors of the following social commentaries discussing expansion into the American frontier and American relations with Native American peoples.
\par 1.  "The Significance of the Frontier in American History" (1893), which argued that the end of westward expansion and the defeat of the last Native American tribes would eventually result in the stagnation and weakening of the American people.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Frederick Jackson }{\f0\ul Turner}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  }{\f0\ul A Century of Dishonor}{\f0 , (1881), which violently criticized the U.S. government's treatment of Native Americans and its failure to live up to its own treaty commitments.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Helen Hunt }{\f0\ul Jackson}{\f0  (do not accept "Helen Hunt"--she's cute, but she's not right)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  }{\f0\ul Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee}{\f0 , which describes in detail white expansion into the American West and the subjugation of the Native American tribes which followed
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Dee }{\f0\ul Brown}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  Name these recent NASA satellites and space probes, FTPE.
\par 1. Launched in 1989, it detected the predicted fluctuations in microwave radiation left over by the Big Bang.
\par Answer: }{\f0\ul Cosmic Background Exporer}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul COBE}{\f0 
\par 2. Launched in 1990, it used a gravitational boost from Jupiter to go into a unique polar orbit around the sun, exploring areas outside the plane of the ecliptic.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ulysses}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3. Launched in 1994, it photographed the moon but it missed its appointment with the asteroid 1620 Geographos because of a computer malfunction.  It was in the news in 1996 when its photos revealed the presence of water ice in a lunar crater.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Clementine}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  March Madness is nearly upon us.  Identify the NCAA Division I-A conferences containing the following teams, FTPE.
\par 1. College of Charleston, Florida International, Samford
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Trans America}{\f0  Athletic Confernce (accept }{\f0\ul TAAC}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Navy, Colgate, Holy Cross
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Patriot}{\f0  League
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Northern Arizona, Montana, Weber St.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Big Sky}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  Identify these hard-luck American ships FTPE.
\par 1. This destroyer was torpedoed by a U-boat in October, 1941, the first American vessal to be sunk in World War II.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Reuben James}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This gunboat with a large American flag painted on the deck was "accidently" sunk by Japanese planes while sailing the Yangtze River in December, 1937.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Panay}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This intelligence-gathering ship was captured in the Sea of Japan in January, 1968 by North Korea and the crew was held for 11 months.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Pueblo}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 6.  Give the Roman authors of these works FTPE.
\par 1. "Adelphi"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Terence}{\f0  (Publius Terentius Afer)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. "Ars Amatoria"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ovid}{\f0  (Publius Ovidius Naso)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. "Menaechmi"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Titus Maccius }{\f0\ul Plautus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  Given the area of influence of a god from Norse mythology, identify the god or goddess being described FTPE.
\par 1.  Love, fertility, and beauty, as well as battle and death (gotta love those gloomy Norse)
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Freya}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Guardian of the Bifrost Bridge
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Heimdall}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Light and joy
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Balder}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. 30-20-10 Name the composer from works.
\par 1. The opera "Trouble in Tahiti", the symphony "The Age of Anxiety", the choral work "Chichester Psalms"
\par 2. Two additional symphonies, the "Jeremiah" and the "Kaddish"; the ballet "Fancy Free"
\par 3. The musicals "On the Town" and "West Side Story"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Leonard }{\f0\ul Bernstein}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  Given the year and the loser of the Presidential election, name his non-obscure running mate FTPE.
\par 1. 1920, James M. Cox
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul F}{\f0 ranklin Delano }{\f0\ul Roosevelt}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul FDR}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 1948, Thomas Dewey
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Earl }{\f0\ul Warren}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 1976, Gerald Ford
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Robert (Bob) }{\f0\ul Dole}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. Identify the following mathematical formulas & such named for British mathematicians that this writer is randomly taking out of his calculus textbook.
\par 1. This numerical approximation of a definite integral is derived from approximating the curve to be integrated by parabolas.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: (Thomas) }{\f0\ul Simpson}{\f0 's rule
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. A function's Taylor series expanded about zero is named for this Scottish mathematician.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Colin }{\f0\ul Maclaurin}{\f0  (series)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This Irish mathematician's theorem relates an integral over a three-dimensional surface to an integral around its boundary curve.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul Stokes}{\f0 ' Theorem
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  Answer these relatively unrelated questions FTSNP.
\par 1. FTP, he represented Donald Trump, Calvin Klein and Andy Warhol, and helped to prosecute the Rosenbergs, but is best known as the counsel to Joseph McCarthy's investigations committee.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Roy }{\f0\ul Cohn}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. FFP, although he had been in exile for 18 years, he was elected president of Argentina in 1973.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Juan }{\f0\ul Peron}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. FTP, his musical resume would list: music director at La Scala, 1898-1908; conductor of the New York Philharmonic, 1926-1936; and conductor of the NBC Symphony, 1937-1954.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arturo }{\f0\ul Toscanini}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. FFP, this synthetic polyester fiber, made of the polymer polyethylene terephthalate, is often combined with cotton & wool in fabric, and is resistant to shrinking and stretching.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Dacron}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 [Note: "Roy Cohn, Juan Peron, Toscanini, Dacron" is a line in Billy Joel's "We Didn't Start the Fire".]
\par \page 12. Identify the authors of the following literary quotes, FTPE.
\par 1. "If two New Hampshiremen aren't a match for the devil, we might as well give the country back to the Indians."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Steven Vincent }{\f0\ul Benet}{\f0  (from The Devil and Daniel Webster)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. "I am a Bear of Very Little Brain, and long words Bother me."
\par Answer: A.A. (Alan Alexander) }{\f0\ul Milne}{\f0  (from Winnie-the-Pooh)
\par 3. "I can resist everything but temptation."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Oscar }{\f0\ul Wilde}{\f0  (from Lady Windemere's Fan)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  Identify these random "c"-initialed chemistry terms FTPE.
\par 1. These are chemical substances that are formed by the union of two or more compounds that can exist independently, usually joined together by a covalent bond.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul coordination compound}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul complex compound}{\f0 , or }{\f0\ul coordination complex}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The elements of Group VI on the periodic table, from the Greek for "copper bearing".
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul chalcogen}{\f0 s
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This property of optical isomers indicates that two isomers cannot be reoriented to resemble one another.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul chiral}{\f0 ity
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  Identify the 20th-century statesman, 30-20-10.
\par 1. Educated as a teacher in the U.S. and England, he organized the Pan-African Congress in 1945.
\par 2. Forced from his position as his nation's first post-independence President by a military coup in 1966, he died in exile in Romania in 1972.
\par 3. He was the first post-colonial Prime Minister and President of Ghana.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Kwame }{\f0\ul Nkrumah}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15.  Identify the group or movement the following trios of artists all were primarily associated with, FTPE.
\par 1. Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Franz Marc
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Der Blaue Reiter}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul The Blue Rider}{\f0  (prompt on }{\f0\ul expressionism}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Theodore Rousseau, Charles Daubigny, Constant Troyon
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Barbizon}{\f0  School
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Thomas Cole, Asher Durand, Frederic Church
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Hudson River}{\f0  School
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16.  Arrange these major Christian feast days in chronological order during the year FFPE: First Sunday in Advent, Holy Innocents, Pentecost, Ascension, All Souls, All Saints
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Ascension}{\f0  (between 4/30 & 6/3), }{\f0\ul Pentecost}{\f0  (10 days after Ascension), }{\f0\ul All Saints}{\f0  (11/1), }{\f0\ul All Souls}{\f0 
 (11/2), First Sunday in }{\f0\ul Advent}{\f0  (Sunday nearest to 11/30), }{\f0\ul Holy Innocents}{\f0  (12/28)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. FFPE, what states are the following National Parks located in?
\par 1. Capitol Reef
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Utah}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Guadelupe Mountains
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Texas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Theodore Roosevelt
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul North Dakota}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. Joshua Tree
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul California}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. Mesa Verde
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Colorado}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 6. Voyageurs
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Minnesota}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18.  Give the colorful names for the following types of algae, FTPE.
\par 1. These are multicellular seaweeds with differentiated parts that may superficially resemble true plants.  Familiar types include the giant kelps.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul brown}{\f0  algae
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Their color is due, in part, to carotene.  Diatoms are the most important type of this algae.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul golden}{\f0 -brown algae
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. These prokaryotic algae share many characteristics with bacteria.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul blue-green}{\f0  algae
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 19.  Identify these generals from the Napoleonic Wars for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5:  This English general commanded the allied contingent that defeated Napoleon at Waterloo.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Arthur Wellesley, First Duke of }{\f0\ul Wellington}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10: This Prussian commander of the army of the lower Rhine played a crucial role in helping the Duke of Wellington defeat Napoleon's army.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Gebhart von }{\f0\ul Blucher}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 15:  Following Napoleon's return from exile on Elba, this French general was sent by the Bourbon monarchy to arrest Napoleon, but instead he and his entire army joined Napoleon.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Michel }{\f0\ul Ney}{\f0 , Duc d'Elchingen
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. Identify the Shakespeare play from characters, FTPE.
\par 1. Ferdinand, king of Navarre; Biron; Longaville; Dumain
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: "}{\f0\ul Love's Labour's Lost}{\f0 "
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Pandarus, Clachas, Diomedes
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: "}{\f0\ul Troilus and Cressida}{\f0 "
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Rosalind, Orlando, Jaques
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: "}{\f0\ul As You Like It}{\f0 "
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. 30-20-10 Name the artist from works.
\par 1. "The Martyrdom of St. Erasmus", "The Adoration of the Golden Calf"
\par 2.  "Landscape with Orion",  'Et in Arcadia Ego"
\par 3.  "Burial of Phocion"
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Nicolas }{\f0\ul Poussin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  On September 24, 1869, two men who had earlier wrested control of the Erie Railroad from Cornelius Vanderbilt tried to corner the gold market.  FTPE, name these two "robber barons" and the panic which their actions caused.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jay }{\f0\ul Gould}{\f0 , James }{\f0\ul Fisk}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Black Friday}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. 30-20-10 Name the year from events.
\par 1. Beethoven composes sypmhonies 7 & 8; the Grimms publish their "Fairy Tales"; Louisiana becomes a state
\par 2.  USS Constitution defeats Guerriere; Napoleon wins the battle of Borodino
\par 3.  James Madison defeats DeWitt Clinton in presidential election; Congress declares war on Britain
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 1812}{\f0 
\par }}