{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{
\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{
\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{
\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 \additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals Questions}{\author David Hamilton}
{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min51}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min51}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3589}{\nofchars20462}{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws25128}{\vern89}}
\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals Questions}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000000000}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par University of Missouri-Rolla (Hard Core FYM)/Texas A&M
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  A member of the Yiddish triumvirate, this Russian Jewish writer has been called "The Yiddish Mark Twain". He wrote stories popular all over the world, including The Adventures of Mottel, the Old Country, and Tevye's Daughter.  FTP name this writer bes
t remembered as the author of the basis for the musical "Fiddler on the Roof."
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab \tab Answer: Sholom }{\f0\ul Aleichem}{\f0 
\par 
\par 2. The year's the same:  The first Army-Navy football game is played.  Wyoming became the first state admitted to the union with women's suffrage.  Jac
ob Riis's How the Other Half Lives is published.  FTP, name this year which saw the passage of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and the Battle at Wounded Knee.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 1890}{\f0 
\par 
\par 3.  Wouldn't it be fun to be so powerful that you could invent a god?  After receiving
 his chunk of Alexander's empire, Ptolemy invented this god to promote religious unity.  He combined elements of Osiris and thus took Osiris' place in the Isis and Horus story.  This god, then got its name from a fusion of the elements of Osiris and the g
od Apis.  FTP, name this god whose name is known in history as a ship defeated by John Paul Jones.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Serapis}{\f0 
\par 
\par 4. After Trafalgar, England had no reason to fear French invasion.  Still, Napoleon was a threat, and they began to fund his enemies on the
 continent, hoping to rid themselves of him.  This plan backfired and the resulting battle,  considered by many Napoleon's greatest victory, gave him control over most of Europe.  For 10 points, name this December 1805 battle fought in what is now the Cze
ch Republic.\tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Austerlitz}{\f0 
\par 
\par 5. Because it is an alpha particle emmiter absorbed readily by bone marrow,this second trans-uranium element to be discovered must be handled with care. Its radioactivty also made itthe most important ingredient in the Fa
t Boy atomic bomb that destroyed Nagasaki.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Plutonium}{\f0 
\par 
\par 6. Ironically, Western powers supported his resistance efforts in World War 2 before Stalin did.  Even though he was a communist, he was unknown so Stalin supported the royalist Chetniks of Co
lonel Drazha Mikhailovic.  Meanwhile, Winston Churcill supportedthis Communist leader because "he was killing more Germans."  With Western support he did just that, which is appropriate since he assumed a name which means "Do this Do that".  He would late
r embarass Stalin by forming a non-Soviet alignedCommunist government.  FTP, name this man who changed his name from Josip Broz and ruled Yugoslavia until 1980.\tab 
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tito}{\f0  accept Josip Broz on early buzz
\par 
\par 7. In 1835, his poem "Paracelsus" led him to an
 acquaintance with an actor, and he flirted with writing drama.  His plays A Soul's Tragedy, Stafford, and Colombe's Birthday are all virtually forgotten, but his talents for characterization as in his DramaticPortraits are not.  For ten points, name this
 Romantic Poet of Fra Lippo Lippi, Andrea del Satro, and My  Last Duchess.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul R}{\f0 obert }{\f0\ul Browning}{\f0 
\par 
\par 8. His throat is blue because he drinks a cup full of sins in order to save man.  He is represented by a lingam, a stylized phallus, and rides around on Nandi, a white bull.  For ten points, name this god of Hinduism whose consort is Parvati and who is th
e destroyer portion of the Hindu trinity.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Shiva}{\f0 
\par 
\par 9. The Pribnow box occurs just before the starting point of this process. Only one-half of the source molecule is used, genetic confusion would result if both strands were used. The process is usual
ly halted by a hairpin loop followed by six uridine residuesor the rho factor. The polymerase molecule binds to the promotor on the DNA chain. FTP, name this process that synthesizes RNA from DNA.
\par \tab \tab Answer: DNA }{\f0\ul transcription}{\f0  (prompt on early RNA synthesis)
\par 
\par 10. After completing film studies in Prague, he became a scriptwriter and a director of shorts with the Magic Lantern Multi-Media group.  He directed Buck Henry and Lynn Carlin in his American film debut, 1970's Taking Off.  His film version of Hair and 
an adaptation of E.L. Doctrow's Ragtime were considered failures, especially when considering they were released between his Oscar winning films One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Amadeus.  FTP, name this director who recently received an Oscar nominatio
n forthe People vs Larry Flint.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Milos }{\f0\ul Forman
\par \page }{\f0 11. In this novel, the title character gets hosed as he accidentally kills a girl and fails to escape the authorities who aren't fooled by his false ransom note, and hose him off a rooftop.  He then re
cruits a communist lawyer to defend him, and after losingthe case, is executed.  For ten points, Bigger Thomas is the title character of what work by Richard Wright?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Native Son}{\f0 
\par 
\par 12. Dutch physicist H. Kamerlingh Onnes discovered this phenomena in
 mercury in 1911, but it was alittle more than a curiosity until 1986 when IBM researchers found a compound that exhibited it above 30 degreesKelvin. FTP, name this phenomenon that won Bednorz and Muller the Nobel Prize in 1987.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Superconductivity}{\f0  or  }{\f0\ul Superconducting}{\f0 
\par 
\par 13. Joseph Conrad wrote many works about the sea and the wilderness, but he set what many consider to be his greatest novel in the Latin American country of Costaguana.  FTP what is this 1904 novel in which the silver mine of San Tome
 is inherited by Charles Gould.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Nostromo}{\f0 
\par 
\par 14.  Formerly called the Trucial Staes, its seven members include Dubai, Fjuairah, Ras al Khaimah, Sharjah, Umm al Qaiwain, and Ajman. For 10 poins, identify this oil rich federation located on the Persian Gulf whose best known member is Abu Dhabi. 

\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul United Arab Emirates}{\f0 
\par 
\par 15. Largely self-educated, he appointed professor of mathematics at Queen's College in Cork Ireland in 1849.  In 1854 he published The Laws of Thought, an extension of his earlier work,  }{\f0\ul The Mathematical Analysis of Logic}{\f0 
.  Today his name is remembered in the type of Algebra that is the basis of digital electronics. FTP, name this man, the father of symbolic logic.
\par \tab \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul Boole}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16.  He was kidnapped by gypsies at the ag
e of four, but was abandoned and returned to his guardian in Kirkcaldy Scotland.  He would probably have made a poor gypsy, but made great contributions to the field of philosophy like the Theory of Moral Sentiments.Later, on a trip to France, he met Ques
nay and the rest of the physiocrats and became fascinated with another academic discipline.  FTP, what man in 1776 published his Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Adam Smith}{\f0 
\par 
\par 17. Funk & Wagnalls Dictionary describes it a
s a motif of folk tales in which a hero comes upon an ill-treated corpse.  After he gives his last penny to help fund a proper burial, the hero meets a traveling companion who aids him in some impossible task.  The companion finally reveals himself to be 
the corpse that the hero helped.  Outside folk tales, this monicker applies to: Bob Weir, Phil Lesh, Mickey Hart, Bill Kreutzmann, and formerly Jerry Garcia. FTP, give the name that the legend and people have in common.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Grateful Dead}{\f0 
\par 
\par 18. When he was 17, he cut off another boy's pigtail, and was dismissed from the choir school of St. Stephen's cathedral in Vienna.  He found a sponsor in Count Morzin, for whom he composed his first symphony and "La Chasse" string quartet.  FTP, who was 
this classical composer better known for works he composed for the Esterhazy family, including the Cecilia mass, Hornsignal symphony, The Creation oratorio, and the Farewell symphony? 
\par \tab \tab Answer: Joseph }{\f0\ul Haydn}{\f0 
\par 
\par 19. He was editor of Iowa Homestead magazine and
 served as head of the Board of Economic Warfare from 1942-1943.  He was the Secreary of Commerce from 1945-1946 and an unsuccessful presidential candidate in 1948 for the Progressive Party.For ten points, name this man who was secretary of agriculture fr
om 1933-1940 and vice president from 1941 to 1945.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Henry Agard }{\f0\ul Wallace}{\f0 
\par 
\par 20. Known as the French Shakespeare, and the Founder of French Tragedy, this rival of Moliere was criticized at the opening of his Le Cid because it did not conform to the thr
ee major unities.  He went on to write more conventional works, however, including Horace and Cinna.  FTP, name this French dramatist of the masterpiece Polyeucte.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Pierre }{\f0\ul Corneille}{\f0 
\par 
\par 21. Acetyl Co-A is the input to this process. This process uses 
many enzymes, and eventually generates a molecule of ATP when Succinyl Co-A is made into Succinate. The process then returns to oxaloacetateto which another Acetyl Co-A molecule is added. FTP, name this, one of the main energy generating processes in aero
bic cells.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul tricarboxylic acid cycle}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul TCA cycle}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul citric acid cycle}{\f0 , Krebs cycle
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 22. Scouts said the defenders had built a wall but were few in number.  Xerxes assumed they would leave, but after four days the Persian emperor ordered an attack which
 three hundred Greeks quickly repulsed.  The Greek commander had chosenhis soldiers carefully.  Each was a veteran with at least one son to carry on the family name.  Eventually, local traitors showed the Persians a way to surround the Greeks.  Leonidas, 
the Greek commander dismissed most of his men so that Spartans would receive all the upcoming glory.  FTP, name this 480 BC battle in which Spartans defended a mountain pass to the death against the Persians.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Thermopylae}{\f0 
\par 
\par 23. She was born in West 
Virginia, but most of her life was spent in China as she was the daughter and leter the wife of missionaries.  Her 2nd novel, the story of a Chinese peasant's struggle for land and security led her to win the Nobel Prize in 1938.  ForTen Points, name this
 American author of The Good Earth.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Pearl Sydenstricker }{\f0\ul Buck
\par }{\f0 
\par 24. Its area was only 8 square miles, but contained two airfields and Surabachi, a volcano.  Lieutenant General Kuribayashi led the defense which was considered crucial since the island
 was only 700 miles from Tokyo.  For ten points, try to picture the name of this island which was taken by American troops on February 18, 1945.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Iwo Jima
\par 
\par 25. Selim the Second was quarreling with the Venetians over Cyprus.  Pope Pius the Fifth ob
liged the Venetians by calling for a Crusade against the Ottomans.  Charles the Fifth's bastard son Don John commanded the assembled Italian and Spanish fleet.For ten points, name this 1571 battle which changed the balance of naval power in the Mediterran
ean.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Lepanto}{\f0 
\par 
\par 26. This French writer accompanied Gide to Berlin in 1934 to help the defenders in the Reichstag Fire trial, worked with the Republican air force in Spain in 1936 and 1937, and later became De Gaulle's Minister of Information.  In sp
ite of his busy schedule, he found time to write a number of novels and works of non-fiction.  FTP, name this author of }{\f0\ul La Condition Humaine}{\f0  and the four-volume work on the psychology of art, }{\f0\ul The Voices of Silence}{\f0 .
\par \tab \tab Answer: Andre }{\f0\ul Malraux}{\f0 
\par 
\par \page 
Biscayne Bay in South Florida is the location of extensive tidal swampland.  This type of swamp is known for trapping sediment, that later builds into fertile land mass.  You'll get Ten Easy Points if you name these swamps, which share their name with an 
aquatic evergreen tree species that grows there.
\par \tab \tab Answer: Mangrove
\par 
\par If you were to head out of the City of Destruction.  Run straight through the Slough of Despond, Go through Sinai, Stop off at the Interpreter's House and leave any burdens you may have at
 the cross, then Pass through Vanity Fair and cross the mountains to your destination.  For ten points, at name either the destination or the novel which features it by John Bunyan.
\par \tab \tab Answer: _Celestial City_ or _Pilgram's Progress_
\par 
\par This property of a metal is defined as the continuous deformation of a solid material under a constant stress well below its yield point. For ten points name this property which is also the title of a popular Radiohead song.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul creep}{\f0  not youngs modulus
\par 
\par \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals Questions
\par University of Missouri-Rolla (Hard Core FYM)/Texas A&M
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  Salmon Chase and Earl Warren are two of the best know Supreme Court Chief Justices. In between came seven men, one of whom was William Howard Taft.  For 5 points each, name the other six chief justices between Chase and Warren. (any order)
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Morrison R. }{\f0\ul Waite}{\f0 , Melville W. }{\f0\ul Fuller}{\f0 , Edward D. }{\f0\ul White}{\f0 , [William Howard Taft], Charles Evans }{\f0\ul Hughes}{\f0 
, Harlan F. }{\f0\ul Stone}{\f0 , and Fred M. }{\f0\ul Vinson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. Identify the English poets who wrote the following poems for 5 points each.
\par 1. My Last Duchess\tab \tab \tab Answer: Robert }{\f0\ul Browning}{\f0 
\par 2. The Ecstasy\tab \tab \tab Answer: John }{\f0\ul Donne}{\f0 
\par 3. Venus and Adonis\tab \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul Shakespeare}{\f0 
\par 4. To His Coy Mistress\tab \tab Answer: Andrew }{\f0\ul Marvell}{\f0 
\par 5. The Windhover\tab \tab \tab Answer: Gerard Manley }{\f0\ul Hopkins}{\f0 
\par 6. Goblin Market\tab \tab \tab Answer: Christina }{\f0\ul Rossetti}{\f0 
\par 
\par 3. You'll receive ten points for each correct answer identifying the type of math described.
\par 1.  Founded primarily by John von Neumann, this type of math deals with determining the optimal behavior in situations involving conflict of interest, and includes the study of
\par scenarios such as the prisoner s dilemma.      
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Game theory}{\f0 
\par 2.  Defined as "the study of classifying singularities of systems whose behavior is usually smooth, but which sometimes exhibits discontinuities", it is then used to propose mathematical models of discontinuous events in nature,  including geometric optic
s and wave propagation, as well as political elections, mental disorders, and the outbreak of war.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Catastrophe}{\f0  theory
\par 3.  A body of concepts and methods intended to provide a framework for dealing with vagueness and imprecision. It allows a statement to be partly true and partly false at the same time.           
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Fuzzy Logic}{\f0 
\par 
\par 4. Given the following information, name the fmaous sons of Johann Sebastian Bach, for 10 points each.
\par 1. He lived from 1714-88, and was the third son of J.S. Bach.  One of hsi crowning achievements wasw that he was the music director of the 5 principal churches of hamburg.
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Carl Philipp Emanuel}{\f0  Bach or C.P.E. Bach
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. He lived from 1735-82, and was the youngest son of J.S. Bach.  one of his accomplishments was that he was organist of the Miloan Cathedral from 1760-1762.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Johann Christian}{\f0  Bach or J.C. Bach
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. He lived from 1710-1784, and was J.S. bach's oldest child.  There are 21 cantatas and 9 symphonies to his credit.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Wilhelm Friedmann}{\f0  Bach or W.F. Bach
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0  
\par 5. }{\v\f0 Note:  The change to pitch (15) and font (1) must be converted manually.}{\f0  30 pt bonus.  I hear Siberia is beautiful this time of year.  For 10 points each, show your knowledge of the Siberian beach party scene by naming any 3 of the 7 seas
 that border Russia on the North.  Exclude the Pechorskoye (Pay-shor-skoy-yeh) sea, since only dweebs hang out there and don't say the Bering Sea, which boreders Russia on the east and south.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Barents}{\f0  Sea, }{\f0\ul Chukchi}{\f0  Sea, }{\f0\ul East Siberian}{\f0  Sea, }{\f0\ul Kara}{\f0  Sea }{\f0\ul Laptev}{\f0  Sea, }{\f0\ul White}{\f0 
 Sea or }{\f0\ul Beloye}{\f0  More
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. Name the type of acid, all of which are named for scientists, for 10 points each.
\par 1. This acid definition emphasizes proton transfer from acids to bases.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Bronsted-Lowry}{\f0  acid
\par 2. This definition says that acids are electron pair acceptors and that bases are electron pair donors.
\par \tab \tab }{\f0\ul Lewis}{\f0  acids
\par 3. This type of acid increases the concentration of hydronium ions.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Arrhenius}{\f0  acid
\par \page 7. Name the Dickens novel to which these characters belong, for 10 points each. 
\par 1.  Dick Swiveler, Little Nell
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Old Curiosity Shop}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Bill Sikes, Charlie Bates, Fagin
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Oliver Twist}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Abel Magwitch, Mr. Jaggers, Estella, Miss Havisham
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Great Expectations}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. It's time for a question about SNM--The Saturday Night Massacre.  Answer these people involved in Richard Nixon's attempt to fire Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox. 
\par 1. 5 pts:  Name the attorney general who resigned his office instead of fulfilling Nixon's request to fire Cox.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Elliott }{\f0\ul Richardson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: This Deputy Attorney General also refused to fire Cox.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul Ruckelhaus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 5 pts: This Solicitor General fired Cox and it came back to haunt him.  His sometimes evasive answers durin
g confirmation hearings cost him a spot on the Supreme Court and caused Mark Russell to remark he was "so complex that his favorite color was plaid."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Robert }{\f0\ul Bork}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. 10 pts:  Who replaced Cox as Special Prosecutor?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Leon }{\f0\ul Jaworski}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  We've all heard our share of questions about Norse mythology.  For a change of pace identify these members of the ancient Egyptian pantheon.  Given an Egyptian deity, identify the animal whose head they are usually depicted as wearing.
\par 1. 5 pts: Bast\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul cat}{\f0 
\par 2. 10 pts: Thoth\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul ibis}{\f0 
\par 3. 5 pts: Anubis\tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul jackal}{\f0 
\par 4. 10 pts: Hathor\tab Answer: }{\f0\ul cow}{\f0 
\par 
\par 10. For fifteen points each, name these two men involved in the movie }{\f0\ul The Killing Fields}{\f0  (1984).
\par 1.  Portrayed in }{\f0\ul The Killing Fields}{\f0 , he was an aide to New York Times correspondent Sidney Schanberg during the Vietnam War.  He was imprisoned by the Khmer Rouge regime that killed\tab millions of Cambodians.
\par \tab Answer:  Dith }{\f0\ul Pran}{\f0 
\par 2.  The first nonprofessional actor to win an Oscar since 1946, he portrayed Dith Pran in the film. This February he was shot and killed outside his Los Angeles home,  perhaps in retaliation for his recent humanitarian work in Cambodia.
\par Answer:  Dr. Haing S. }{\f0\ul Ngor}{\f0    (pronounced }{\f0 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0 Nor}{\f0 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0 )
\par 
\par 11. For 15 points each, identify these Roman emperors. 
\par 1. He ruled the empire from 211 to 217 and gave Roman citizenship to those living in all parts of the empire to increase his tax revenue.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Caracalla}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. He was Marcus Aurelius's son, but did no
t share his father's philisophical leanings.  His rule was erratic, but that's to be expected when you think you are Hercules.  He ruled from 180 to 192 when he was killed by his wrestling coach.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Commodus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12. There are four levels of protein structure.  Given a description, give the level of structure referred to, ten points apiece. 
\par 1. Mainly the distinction between alpha helix and beta pleated sheets.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul secondary}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Caused by the interactions between R-groups of amino acids; including hydrogen bonding, disulphide bridged, and hydrophobic and hydrophillic interactions.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul tertiary}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. The sequence of amino acids
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul primary}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 13. Identify the recently deceased author for 30 points on the first clue, 20 on the second, or 10 on the third.
\par 1.  She wrote 35 novels between 1943 and 1995.  Among the more famous were The Kidnaping of Lol V. Stein  (1964) and Savannah Bay (1983).  Her 1950 novel Dam Against the Pacific is based on her own family's struggles with the seasonal flooding of th
e Mekong River.
\par 2.  She was born in 1914 in the former French Indochina.  She attended high school in Saigon and the region inspired several of her novels.
\par 3.  Her 1984 book L'Amant (The Lover) won France's top literary honor, the Prix Goncourt.  The novel is the story of a 14-year-old girl from a poor  French family in Indochina, who becomes the mistress of a wealthy Indochinese notable's son.
\par \tab \tab Answer:  Marguerite }{\f0\ul Duras}{\f0 
\par 
\par 14. The Democratic jihad to get Newt has left some members of Congress under investigation for a number of felonies.  Answer these questions about the illegal eavesdropping on one of Newt's phone conversations for the stated number of points. 
\par 1. 15 pts:  This Florida congresswoman representing areas around Ft. Lauderdale was the first to obtain the feloniously recorded conversation from the Martins, forwarding it to the Democratic Leadership.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Karen }{\f0\ul Thurman}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2, 19 pts: This Washington Democrat and ranking member of the House Ethics committee resigned after allegations that he was the one who feloniously forwarded the tape to the New York Times.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jim }{\f0\ul McDermott}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 5 pts: At the center of the scandals lies the Michigan Democratic Minority Whip responsible for most of the attacks on Newt.  His staff supposedly directed the illega
lly taped phone conversation from Thurman to McDermott.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: David }{\f0\ul Bonior}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. 30-20-10 Identify the art movement.
\par 1. It lasted from about 1898 to 1908 and the members held their first exhibition in 1905, after which the movement had the name we use today.
\par 2. Andre' Derain and Maurice de Vlaminck are two men who practiced 
\par this art form.
\par 3. The style was been characterized by raw, vibrant colors with 
\par bold black outlines and a moderately distored perspective.  It's leader was Henri Matisse.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul fauvism}{\f0  or Les }{\f0\ul Fauves}{\f0 
\par 
\par 16. 30-20-10 Identify the American author from works.
\par 1. These Thirteen and Knight's Gambit
\par 2. Mosquitos and A Fable
\par 3. Absalom, Absalom and The Unvanquished
\par \tab \tab Answer: William }{\f0\ul Faulkner}{\f0 
\par 
\par 17. From the description given, name the metal for 10 points each given one clue, after two clues for 5 points.
\par 1. 10 pts: Its principle ores include scheelite. \tab 
\par 5 pts: This metal has a melting point of any element.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tungsten}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Wolfram}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: This ferromagnetic metal is used along with element number 48 to make cheap rechargeable batteries.
\par 5 pts:  Along with chromium, it makes up Nichrome, an alloy used for heating elements.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Nickel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10 pts: The largest use of this element is in its dioxide form, which is used as a brilliant white pigment.
\par 5 pts: It is is used extensivly in the aerospace industry because of its light weight and high strength and has atomic number 22.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Titanium}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par \page 18. Medieval popes had a lot of power; some even got medieval.  Many historians have even ranked Innocent III as one of the most powerful men in history.   Answer these questions about his reign as pope which lasted from 1198 to 1216. 
\par 1.  In 1210, Innocent excommunicated Otto, the Holy Roman Emperor and dictated the election of the youthful King of Sicily.  Innocent's successors would regret this as this youth grew into a strong willed, strangely modern emperor.  Name him.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Frederick II}{\f0 
\par 2.  Innocent III called for a Crusade to the Holy Land  but the crusaders sacked Constantinople instead.  What is the number of this Crusade?
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Fourth}{\f0  or 4 
\par 3. Innocent III once placed all of England under the Interdict and excommunicated the English king.  Name that king.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul John}{\f0 
\par 
\par 19. Name the philospher from works on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1. }{\f0\ul History of the Stuart Reign}{\f0 
\par 2. }{\f0\ul On the Natural History of Religion}{\f0 
\par 3. }{\f0\ul Treatise on Human Nature}{\f0 
\par \tab \tab Answer: David }{\f0\ul Hume}{\f0 
\par 
\par 20. Given the position equation X of t equals four X cubed plus three X squared minus seven X plus two:  Find the following for 10 points each.
\par 1. the position at t equals 2.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 32}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. the Velocity at t equals 5
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab }{\f0\ul Answer: 323}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. the acceleration at t equals three quarters.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 18}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  Charlemagne's successor Louis the Pious divided his kingdom among his three sons.  For ten points each name these three men who signed the Treaty of Verdun. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Louis}{\f0  the German, }{\f0\ul Charles the Bald}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Charles II}{\f0 , and Lothair
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. 30-20-10 Name the nation from clues. 
\par 1. Manuel Roxas was elected president in 1946, the year it gained its independece.
\par 2. The republic was temporarily halted due to the imposition of martial law in 1972 because the president said he needed powers to put down a revolt of the Islamic Moros.
\par 3. Clark Air Force base was destroyed there in 1991 by the eruption of Mount Pinatubo.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Philippines}{\f0 
\par \page Name these commonly used film terms derived from French for ten points each. 
\par 10) Making use of hand held cameras and interviewing for the stated purpose of providing a realistic view, this technique was given a name meaning, literally, cinema truth.
\par }{\f0\ul Cinema verite}{\f0 
\par 10) This much used French term is used to refer to the arrangement of objects and subjects in front of the camera.
\par }{\f0\ul Mise-en-scene}{\f0 
\par 
\par 
\par Identify the economist on a 30-15 basis.
\par 30 pt clue)  He once shocked student David Heilbroner (later author of theWorldly Philosphers) by telling them the Depression was nothing more than a cold douche to the capitalist economy.
\par 15 pt clue)  He is the Austrian economist who wrote Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy.
\par Joseph }{\f0\ul Schumpeter}{\f0 
\par 
\par Amino acids are classified into four standard groups based upon their structures and electrical properties.  FTP each, given examples of a group of amino acids, name it. 
\par 10) Tyrosine, Glutamine, Cysteine
\par }{\f0\ul Polar}{\f0  uncharged
\par 10) Lysine, Arginine, Histidine
\par }{\f0\ul Basic}{\f0 
\par 10) Proline, Glycine, Alanine
\par }{\f0\ul Nonpolar}{\f0 
\par 
\par 7. Name the novel, 30-20-10 
\par 30) Originally titled "L'affaire Lettuceberg," it presents a satire about dust bowlers.
\par 20) Its characters include Rose of Sharon and Tom Joad.
\par 10) This 1939 Pullitzer prize winning novel remains John Steinbeck's most famous work.
\par }{\f0\ul The Grapes of Wrath}{\f0 
\par 
\par 10.  20 pt Bonus.  Answer these questions about terms in Jainism for ten points each.
\par a)  This word means }{\f0 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0 great conqueror}{\f0 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0  and is the name given to Jainism}{\f0 
{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 110 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f14\fs20}}}{\f0 s founder.
\par }{\f0\ul Mahavira}{\f0 
\par )  This principle means abstinence from injury of any living thing.
\par }{\f0\ul ahisma}{\f0 
\par }}