{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min51}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min51}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3517}{\nofchars20049}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws24621}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000000000}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by UNC-Chapel Hill/UCLA
\par }{\f0 
\par 1. According to biographer Giorgio Vasari, his earliest training w
as in a goldsmith's shop, but by 1774 he had produced the paintings "Fortitude", "St. Sebastian", and "Adoration of the Magi."  An apprentice of Fra Filippo Lipp i, his handling of light and shade owed much to Massachio.  FTP, name this Renaissance artist
 whose most famous works include "The Madonna of the Magnificat", "La Primavera" and "The Birth of Venus."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Sandro }{\f0\ul Botticelli}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. Known primarily as a liberal humanist, this author was born only a year before his father was killed in World War I.  He contributed to the theater by adapting Dostoyevsky's }{\f0\ul Possessed}{\f0  and Faulkner's }{\f0\ul Requiem for a Nun}{\f0 
 to the stage, although his plays never achieved the fame of his novels.  Name this Algerian-born author whose most important works include }{\f0\ul The Fall}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Plague}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul The Stranger}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Albert }{\f0\ul Camus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. In temperate zones, it can reach a height of 16 feet.  Its leaves are compound with palmate shape, its flowers are small and greenish-yellow, and its seed are produced in elongate, spikelike clusters.    It 
is an excellent potential source of vegetable oil, and its strong durable fibers are often utilized for cordage, but it is best known for a different use.  FTP, give the common name of the species }{\f0\ul Cannabis sativa}{\f0 
, known for the narcotic drugs which can be derived from its leaves and blossoms.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul hemp}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. After receiving his Ph.d. from the University of Heidelberg in 1922, he began his career as a disciple of Sigmund Freud, but like many other psychologists he eventually pursued a different emphasis.
  Most concerned with d eveloping a theory of the relationship between societal factors and human psychology, in his first major work }{\f0\ul Escape From Freedom}{\f0 
 he charted human self-awareness from medieval to modern times.  FTP, name this thinker who a rgued that modern man has become estranged from himself in consumer-oriented industrial life in his 1955 work }{\f0\ul The Sane Society}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Erich }{\f0\ul Fromm}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. It lasted for just 25 days, never receiving official recognition.  It was accomplished without a single gunshot, when thirty horsemen calling themselves Osos stopped General Vallejo on June 14, 1846.  Men led by William Ide declared an independent repu
blic with its capital at Sonoma, but what they really wanted was annexation to the US.  FTP, identify this short\_lived government, now referred to on a Western state flag.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul California Republic}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Republic of California}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Bear Flag Revolt}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. Tattoo
ing of the face and arms is a common practice among the women, and bot h men and women frequently wear earrings in this culture.  These aboriginal people of Asia are now chiefly found on the Kuriles, Sakhalin, and Hokkaido.  Many anthropologists contend t
hat this culture no longer exists, having been absorbed by the Japanese culture, yet their language appears to be unrelated to any other.   Name this aboriginal tribe found in Japan and Russia.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Ainu}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7.  Born Tafari Makonnen, in 1930 he declared himself 'Might of the Trinity' and Lion of the Tribe of Judah.  In 1963, he was instrumental in the formation of the Organization of African Unity, and he helped guide African leaders together in a meeting at 
Addis Ababba.  He led the move for the modernization of Africa, and he promoted the advance of technical school s.  FTP, name this Ethiopian leader, also known as Ras Tafari.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Haile }{\f0\ul Selassie}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  This animal, whose scientific name is Orycteropus af
er, is the sole member of the order Tubulidentata.  Ranging south of the Sahara, this heavily built mammal can be up to six feet long.  Using its large, flattened claws, it rips open the nest of ants and termites, which it eats using its long, sticky tong
ue.  Despite its long snout and rabbit-like ears , it is sometimes called the African ant bear.  FTP name this odd mammal, whose common name is Afrikaans for 'earth pig.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul aardvark}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9.  He was born in 1949 and spent a fair amount of his youth traveling with his famous father.  He attended Oxford and eventually became fiction and poetry editor of the }{\f0\ul Times Literary Supplement}{\f0 
, and his first novel, _The Rachel Papers_ was published in 1973.  He continued working there and with }{\f0\ul The New Statesman}{\f0  while his first few books were published, but eventually left }{\f0\ul The New Statesman}{\f0 
 in 1984.  FTP, name this author, a member of "the new Oxford wits," who has penned such books as }{\f0\ul Money}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Success}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul London Fiels}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Information}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Time's Arrow}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Martin }{\f0\ul Amis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 
10.  Broadcasting from the Church of the Little Flower, this Canadian had a 'voice made for promises.'  He began broadcasting sermons in 1926, but he began to make more and more political statements as he tried to speak for the little man against corpor
ate power.  His perceived jingoism and anti-semitism eventually forced him off the air.  FTP, name this Catholic priest who had half a million listeners everyday.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Father Charles }{\f0\ul Coughlin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  After 13 years as pastor of the Bethel Evangelical Ch
urch in Detroit, he joined the faculty of Union Theological Seminary in New York, where he taught until 1960.  Allied with the socialist movement in the 1930s, he began to deal with questions of political morality in such books as Moral Man and Immoral So
ciety.  He emphasized the reality of sin, as sh own in his Christian Realism and Political Problems.  FTP, name this American theologian who wrote The Children of Light and the Children of Darkness.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Reinhold }{\f0\ul Niebuhr}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12.  It first appeared in 1837 and includes such stories as "Sights from a Steeple," "David Wan," "The Amibitious Guest," "A ril from the Town\_
Pump," "The Seven Vagabonds," "Little Annie's Ramble," and "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment."  FTP, identify this collection of short stories by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Twice Told Tales}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  This compound is a colorless liquid, with a specific gravity of 1.85. It melts at 10.36 C (50.6 F), boils at 340 C (644 F), and is soluble in all proportions in water.  It  was first extracted in the 15}{\f0\super t}{\f0 h c
entury by distilli ng iron vitriol and sand.  It was first distilled commercially in 1740.  Name this acid that is used usually in car energizer and lead battery storage, with the chemical formula H2SO4.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Sulfuric}{\f0  Acid
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  This city, lying at th
e confluence of the Ouse and Foss rivers, has been continuously inhabited for almost 2,000 years.  Its first known residents were the Romans who built a fortress on the site in AD 71, but their name for the settlement, Eboracum, seems to be a Romanized Ce
l
tic word, suggesting even earlier local habitation.  The city was the military headquarters of northern Britian until the Romans withdrew around the year 400.  In 867 it was conquered by the Danes, whose presence is still reflected in the multitude of Dan
ish place names, including the modern name of the city itself.  The Minster Cathedral of St. Paul, built there between the 13}{\f0\super t}{\f0 h and 15}{\f0\super t}{\f0 
h centuries, is the largest Gothic church in England.  FTP name this city, the ecclesiastical capito l of northern England.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul York}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. This American statistician, born in Gloucester, Massachusetts, was educated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His developments in the world of statistics appealed to businesspeople, bankers, and investors, and especially h
is forecasts of business conditions.  He began publication of his own periodical in 1903, and founded two educational institutions, one of which bears his name.  For ten points name this pioneer of the business world that was also the 1940 Prohibition par
ty candidate for president.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Roger Ward }{\f0\ul Babson}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. He originally studied mechanical engineering at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey.  However, by 1923 he had joined the Art Stude nts League in New York, a group heavily influ
enced by the Ashcan School.  After visiting the Dutch painter Mondrian in his studio, this artist began his work on motor-driven sculpture, but his non-motorized work is better known today.  Name this Pennsylvanian remembered for developing the art of the
 mobile.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Alexander }{\f0\ul Calder}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. This heroic poem centers on the exploits of Yudhishthira, Bhima, Arjuna, Na
k ula, and Sahadeva, otherwise known as the Pandavas.  The action focuses on the conflict between the Pandevas and their cousins, the Kauravas.  Before the great war, Krishna sings the Bhagavad-Gita.  For ten points, name this Hindu epic of the 5}{
\f0\super t}{\f0 h century B.C.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Mahabharata}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. This man led a revolt against his uncle the king in about 509 BC.  Following the rape of Lucretia by Sextus, he drove Lucius Tarquinius Superbus and his sons out of Rome.  A republican form of government was then ado pted, 
and he was elected one of the first two consuls. Name this founder of the Roman Republic who allegedly killed his two sons because they conspired to restore the Tarquins.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Lucius Junius }{\f0\ul Brutus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  An associate of James Joyce, he aided Joyce in the translation of a portion of his novel }{\f0\ul Finnegans Wake}{\f0  into the French.  This author's last published work was }{\f0\ul Nacht and Traume}{\f0 
 and his first seperately published creative work was a poem entitled "Whoroscope."  FTP, name this author of the novels }{\f0\ul Murphy}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Watt}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Molloy}{\f0  and the play }{\f0\ul Endgame}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Samuel }{\f0\ul Beckett}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 20.  The son of a blacksmith, he was born in 1791 in Surry, England.  At the age of 14 he was apprenticed to a London bookbinder, but he was able to receive some education in science from th
e City Philosophical Society.  In 1812 he sent a copy of his notes to Humphry Davy, who was so impressed that he made him his permanent assistant at the Royal Institution.  The constant named after his is the quantity of charge required to deliver a stand
a
rd amount of substance in electrolysis.  He introduced the concept of field forces and showed that a changing magnetic field can induce an electric current in a circuit.  FTP identify this pioneer in the science of physics, after whom the SI unit of capac
itance was named.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Michael }{\f0\ul Faraday}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  It is likely that much of the world regrets the creation by the French of this supposed ethnic group.  During the era of imperialism, the French noticed a separation of the people in central Africa into thos
e who hunted and those who farmed.  The French thought the wealthier hunting people were stronger than their countrymen, and thus put these hunters i nto power over the farming people.  Name this elite ethnic group who continue to engage in civil war with
 the Hutus in Rwanda and its environs.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Tutsi}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  Identify the common year FTP:  The first pizzeria opens in NYC; the first commercially successful movie projector is developed in France; Carl Orff and Jean-Paul Sartre are born; French West Afric
a is created; The Importance of Being Earnest, The Time Machine, and The Red Badge of Courage are published; the Treaty of Shimonoseki end the first Sino-Japanese War and forces China to give the island of Formosa to Japan; Whilhelm Roentgen discovers X-R
ays; and Guglielmo Marconi develops the directional radio antenna.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul 1895}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23.  This agency motto is 'We defend the right,' It has jurisdiction in all but two of its countries major political subdivisions.  It was started in 1873, to control crime i
n its territories.  It now contains 700 posts in 17 divisions.  Their parade uniform consists of a low, broad-brimmed hat, scarlet jacket, and blue trousers with a yellow stripe.  Name this police force, the pride of Canada.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Royal Canadian Mounted Police}{\f0  (prompt on 'Mounties')
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24. This woman was born Helena Bertha Amalie in Berlin in 1902.  She was a good friend of Adolf Hitler.  She was trained to be a dancer, but found more success on the silver screen.  Her first film was Peaks of Destiny.  
She later went to the other side of the camera and became the unofficial documenter of the Nazi party.  Name this director whose most famous work was Triumph of the Will.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Leni }{\f0\ul Riefenstahl}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 25. This Austrian-born American psychoanalyst was arreste
d by the Nazis when Germany annexed Austria and was held for two years at Dachau and Buchenwald. His experiences there led to his 1943 study of the effects of inordinate stress on personality, 'Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations'. He was a
s
sociated with the University of Chicago for many years.  His best-known books reflect his interest in autistic children. In 1976 he published 'The Uses of Enchantment', on the meaning and importance of fairy tales. Name this man, who committed suicide in 
1990 at the age of 86.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Bruno }{\f0\ul Bettelheim}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by UNC-Chapel Hill/UCLA
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.  Identify these personalities from Indian mythology for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5:  Decorated with emblems of death, this bloodthirsty fertility goddess was the wife of Shiva.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Kali}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  This hard-drinking, swaggering warrior was a storm god and the main god of the Vedas.             
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Indra}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  15:  The god of motion, he was believed to have golden eyes, hands, and tounges.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Savitar}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.  Identify the following SI units, given other units by which they are defined for 10 pts., or for 5 if you need the quantity that they measure.
\par 1.  10:  volts per ampere  
\par 5:  electrical resistance
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Ohm}{\f0 s
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  kilogram-meters per second squared  
\par 5:  force
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Newtons}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  10:  Newton-meters per second  
\par 5:  power
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Watt}{\f0 s
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.  Given an event in Roman history and the year in which it occured, identify the reigning emperor for the stated number of points.  
\par 1.  5:  Jesus of Nazareth is crucified-c. AD 30. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Tiberius}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  Mt. Vesuvius erupts, destroying the cities of Pompeii and Herculanium-AD 79.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Titus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  15:  The constitution Antoniniana grants citizenship to all inhabitants of the Roman Empire-AD 212.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Commodus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  Answer these questions about beetles, none of which are Ringo, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5:  The ancient Egyptian sun god Khepri, who was thought to roll the s un across the heavens, was symbolized by this type of beetle.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul scarab}{\f0  (or }{\f0\ul dung beetle}{\f0 )
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  To what order of insects do beetles belong?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Coleoptera}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  15:  What Britsh naturalist, when asked what could be inferred about the nature of God by looking at his creation, is said to have replied, 'an inordinate fondness for beetles?'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  J.B.S. }{\f0\ul Haldane}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5.  Identify the Island group given a list of islands in it (10 pts. each).
\par 1.  Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, Sark
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Channel}{\f0  Islands
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Flores, Corvo, Santa Maria, Pico
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Azores}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Near Islands, Commander Islands, Islands of the Four Mountains
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Aleutian}{\f0  Islands
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6.  Identify the stanza types from descriptions FTP each.
\par 1.  First used in Troilus and Criseyde by Chaucer, it features 7 lines of iambic pentameter, rhyming ababbcc.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul rime royal}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Popular among Renaissance Italian poets, it has 8 lines of iambic pentameter, rhyming abababcc.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul ottava rima}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  So called from its use in a poem by Shakespeare, this form of six lines of iambic pentameter has a rhyme scheme of ababcc.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Venus and Adonis stanza}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 7.  They played at the playing field of Eton - identify these Englishmen for 10 points each.
\par 1.  He is the first member of the royal family to attend  Eton.  In his first year, he excelled in Biology and at football.  Name this prince that one day hopes to inherit the throne of Great Britain.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Prince }{\f0\ul William}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  This poet attended Eton College and went on to Oxford before being expelled.  He was one of the leaders of the Romantic period.  Name this poet, the author of Prometheus Unbound and Adonais.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Percy }{\f0\ul Shelley}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This statesman was Prime Minister  four times.  He was the leader of the Liberal party for most of the Victoria Age.  Name this man who championed the idea of Home Rule for Ireland.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William }{\f0\ul Gladstone}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  Give the name of this silent film actress from her movies on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 1. Uneasy Enemy (1912)
\par 2.  Duel in the Sun (1946)
\par 3.  Birth of a Nation (1915)
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Lillian }{\f0\ul Gish}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. 30\_20\_10, name the man.
\par 1. He originally supported the theories of positivism, but this College de France professor became one of the movement's ardent critics as he could not embrace the belief that science could explain everything.
\par 2. Born in 1859, this turn\_of\_the\_century intellect held that nonrational intuition provides insights unattainable by the scientific mentality.   His writings clasify him as an "irrantionalist" alon
g with his contemporaries, Friedrich Nietsche and Georges Sorel.
\par 3. The most noted works of this French philosopher of Jewish background include: The Dream (1901), Creative Evolution (1907), 
\par and Time and Free Will (1910).
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Henri }{\f0\ul Bergson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10.  Paging Robert Stack - Identify these unsolved mysteries for 10 points each.
\par 1.  First described in 'Timaeus and Critias',  it was supposed to be a Utopian commonwealth existing around the 10}{\f0\super t}{\f0 h millennium BC.  Many scholars today believe that is was the island of Thira in the Aegean Sea.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Atlantis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
2.  If you believe Shakespeare, his uncle killed him and his brother to get to the throne.  Others believe that Henry Tudor killed them to solidify his claim to the throne.  But it is still not known what happ
en to this young king of England that reigned only a year, 1470.  Name this king that went into the Tower of London and never emerged again.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Edward V}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This lost city was discovered by an American explorer in 1911.  It is located almost 2000 ft
 above sea level and is a marvel of Meso-American architecture.  How old and when it was last used is still in debate.  But it is one of the most popular tourist sites in Peru.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Machu Picchu}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11.  Give the name of the following deities from eclectic mythologies for 10 points each.
\par 1.  This deity was the chief of the Babylonian gods.  He received that title when he defeated Tiamat and Kingu.  Originally the god of Thunder, he is considered to the creator of the universe and mankind. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Bel}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Marduk}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  He was originally the Toltec god of fertility and was changed to the god of morning and evening star.  He was driven out of his capital city by the god of night, but he promised to return 
in a certain year.  Name this god also called the feather serpent by the Aztecs.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Quetzalcoatl}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  She was the wife of Odin and the protector of housewives in Norse myth.  Her name survives in our 'Friday.'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Frigg}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Frigga}{\f0  (not Freya)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 12. Given a description of a comedic character in Shakespeare, name them ftpe, or for 5 if you need the play.
\par 1.  10:  As commander of the watch, he imagines himself a man of importance.  More by luck than good judgement, he uncovers Don John's plot, but he never real izes its importance, as he is more concerned with perceived insults.
\par 5:  Much Ado About Nothing
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Dogberry}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  10:  The fool at Duke Frederick's court and the companion of Celia, he has a brilliant capacity to use and misuse language.  
His wit and use of logic cloak an opportunist who will make use of those simpler than he, such as Audrey.
\par 5:  As You Like It
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Touchstone}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 10:  Constable in Vienna, he brings Pompey to court and attempts to prosecute Froth for an unspecified insult.
  His mispronunciations and unconsciou s double meanings prevent him from making a serious accusation.
\par 5:  Measure for Measure
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Elbow}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13. Identify these Nobel Prize winners in science ftp each.  
\par 1. This American won the 1936 prize in physics for his discovery of the positron.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Carl }{\f0\ul Anderson}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This English scientist won the 1904 prize in chemistry for his discovery of inert gas elements and their places in the periodic table.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Sir William }{\f0\ul Ramsay}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This American won the 1939 prize in physics for his invention of the cyclotron.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Ernest }{\f0\ul Lawrence}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14.  FTP each identify the person involved with the Cuban Missle Crisis.
\par 1. This Soviet Forgeign Minister was a guest at the White House after US knowledge of the missile build\_up, yet Kennedy did not talk about it with him.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Andrei }{\f0\ul Gromyko}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  This US pilot was killed when his U\_2 plane was shot down over Cuba while taking reconnaisance photos.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Major Rudolf }{\f0\ul Anderson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  This man read President Kennedy's reply to the United Nations.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Adlai }{\f0\ul Stevenson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Name this painter from a list of his artwork, 30-20-10.
\par 1. 'The Red Cloud' and 'The Red Tree'
\par 2. 'Evolution' and 'Pier and Ocean'
\par 3. 'Broadway Boogie Woogie' and 'Composition in Yellow and Blue'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Piet }{\f0\ul Mondrian}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. Identify these three chemical elements from descriptions for 10 points each.  
\par 1. This toxic metal of group V form two allotrophic forms.  Usedin alloys and semiconductor devices, its principal mineral is stibnite.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul antimony}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This group VI metalloid exists in 'grey' and 'red' allotrophic forms; it is used in solar cells, certain types of glass, and photocopiers, and it has an atomic number of 34.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul selenium}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This deep red, toxic liquid halogen as present in trace amounts in seawater and salt deposits.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul bromine}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. Answer these questions about John Crowe Ransom for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5: This was the name of the influential literary magazine Ransom and other poets published between 1922 and 1925.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul The Fugitive}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10:  This 1941 work by Ransom provided the name of an influential 20}{\f0\super t}{\f0 h century school of literary analysis.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul New Criticism}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  15: Ransom taught at this Ohio college from 1937 to 1958, where he founded an influential journal of poetry.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Kenyon}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 18.  Given a brief description, identify the work by Maurice Ravel FTP each.
\par 1. In this piece, Ravel's idea was to repeat the same theme without any development.  It was criticized as "music for fornication."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Bolero}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This is a series of six works, each dedicated to a French author who died in WWI, and having a slightly baroque form.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Le }{\f0\ul Tombeau de Couperin}{\f0  OR The }{\f0\ul Tomb of Couperin}{\f0  OR }{\f0\ul Couperin's Tomb}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This 1912 ballet is about a mythological pair
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Daphins et/and Chloe}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 19.  FTP each, given the official Nobel Prize committee's citation, name the Nobel Laureates in Economic Sciences, all of whom are or were affiliated with the University of Chicago.
\par 1.  "For having extended the domain of microeconomic analysis to a wide range of human behaviour and interaction, including 
\par nonmarket behaviour."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Gary }{\f0\ul Becker}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  "For his achievements in the fields of comsumption analysis, monetary history and theory, and for his demonstration of the 
\par complexity of stabilization policy."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Milton }{\f0\ul Friedman}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  "For having developed and applied the hypothesis of rational expectations and thereby having transformed macroeconomic 
\par analysis and deepened our understanding of economic policy."
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Robert }{\f0\ul Lucas}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 
\par 20.  30-20-10  Name the author from characters by that author.
\par 1.  Dr. Bhaer, John Brooke, Nat Blake
\par 2.  Demi-John, Nan, Laurie
\par 3.  Amy, Beth, Jo and Meg
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Louisa May }{\f0\ul Alcott}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21.  30-20-10-5  Give the common name:  
\par 1.  In a poem by Percy Shelley, he is the narrator of the poem and is moved to compassion when Maddalo introduces him to a man driven mad by love.
\par 2.  In Flannery O'Connor's Everything That Rises Must Converge, he is an unemployed young man who grudgingly fulfils his duty towards his mother.  
\par 3.  In Tiny Alice, 'Brother' is a young Catholic seduced and killed by Alice.
\par 4.  The one called 'The Apostate' was a Roman emperor and nephew of Constantine the Great.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Julian}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  30-20-10-5  Identify the director from films:
\par 1.  Too Much Johnson, It's All True, F for Fake
\par 2.  The Stranger, The Lady from Shanhai, The Fountain of Youth
\par 3.  Mr. Arkadin, Journey into Fear, The Magnificent Ambersons
\par 4.  }{\f0\ul Citizen Kane}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Orson }{\f0\ul Welles}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23.  Given Beat works, name the authors.  Five pts. each, plus five for all corr ect.
\par 1.  The Dharma Bums  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Jack }{\f0\ul Kerouac}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  'A Supermarket in California'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Allen }{\f0\ul Ginsberg}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.  Junky
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William S. }{\f0\ul Burroughs}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4.  'Variations on a Generation'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Gregory }{\f0\ul Corso}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5:  'The Screamers'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Imamu Amiri }{\f0\ul Baraka}{\f0  (Leroi Jones)
\par }}