{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff169\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f169\froman\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv 10pt{\*\falt Modern No. 20};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext15 endnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\s17\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\s19\fi-720\li720\ri720\sb480\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 1;}{\s20\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 2;}{
\s21\fi-720\li2160\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 3;}{\s22\fi-720\li2880\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 4;}{
\s23\fi-720\li3600\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 5;}{\s24\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 6;}{
\s25\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 7;}{\s26\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 8;}{\s27\fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd toc 9;}{\s28\fi-1440\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 1;}{\s29\fi-720\li1440\ri720\nowidctlpar
\tqr\tldot\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \sautoupd index 2;}{\s30\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 toa heading;}{\s31\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169 \sbasedon0 \snext0 caption;}{\*\cs32 
\additive _Equation Caption;}}{\info{\title 1997 ACF Regionals}{\author David Hamilton}{\operator David Hamilton}{\creatim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min51}{\revtim\yr1999\mo1\dy24\hr14\min51}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords4383}{\nofchars24984}
{\*\company University of Maryland}{\nofcharsws30682}{\vern89}}\margl864\margr576\margt1008\margb1296 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz1096\aftnnar\notabind\wraptrsp\nocolbal\sprslnsp\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 \chftnsep }{
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \sl-20\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}{\*\aftncn \pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\fs24  }{
\par }}\sectd \pgnrestart\linex0\headery1008\footery1296\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1 {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\adjustright \f169\fs20 {\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals}{\field{\*\fldinst {\b\f0 PRIVATE }{\b\f0 {\*\datafield 0c0070686f656e697800010000000000}}}{\fldrslt }}{\b\f0 
\par Questions by Wake Forest University
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-9936\li9936\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
1. Elected to the French Academy in 1896, he, like Zola, became famous for his outspoken stand on the Dreyfus case.  Some of his 
\par works include the short story collection }{\f0\ul Balthasar,}{\f0  as well as the novels }{\f0\ul The Gods are Athirst,}{\f0  }{\f0\ul The Red City,}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The Revolt of the 
\par Angels}{\f0 . FTP, identify this author of the play }{\f0\ul Thais}{\f0  and winner of the 1921 Nobel Prize, whose best-known works include }{\f0\ul The 
\par Opinions of Jerome Coignard,}{\f0  }{\f0\ul The Crime of Sylvester Bonnard,}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Penguin Island}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab \tab Answer:  Anatole }{\f0\ul France}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2. This type of so
il is responsible for the color of the Yellow River, and it also made much of Europe fertile for agriculture and forests at the end of the Pleistocene and the beginning of the Holocene.  FTP, what is this fine dust created by glacial action?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul loess}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3. A promenade is used as both an introduction and linking passage. Originally intended as a piano work, the standard orchestral version is by Maurice Ravel, and was first performed in 1874. FTP, name this musical reproduction of ten paintings by the R
ussian artist Victor Hartman, 
\par composed by Modest Moussorgsky.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Pictures at an Exhibition}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4. Active in Democratic California politics until 1880, he later became active in New York City politics, and making a good showing in the mayoral elections 
of 1886 and 1897. Somewhat of a demagogue who seized upon the panic of the economic depression of the 1870's to further his theories, he claimed that poverty continued in America because all rent and land  incomes served to enrich only a small body of lan
downers. FTP, name this first American thinker to propose the single tax, in his 1879 work }{\f0\ul Progress and Poverty}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Henry }{\f0\ul George}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. First performed in 1904, it has been performed internationally, including an New York performance in its original Ru
ssian. Its theme concerns the conflict of the old aristocracy and new bourgeois merchant class in turn of the century Russia. It characters include Lyubov Andreyevna, Gayev, and Varya, whose lack of earnings causes his noble family to lose its estate to L
opakhin, the son of a peasant. FTP, identify this Chekhov play, whose title symbol represents the gentry class which is effectively 'chopped' down by modern changes.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul The Cherry Orchard}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. It consists of two conductors separated by vacuum or an i
nsulator. When equal and opposite charges are placed on the conductors, the charge magnitude is proportional to the potential difference. FTP, name this electrical component which stores electrical potential energy. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul capacitor}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 7. At first, it began as a conglomeration of groups known as the Supreme Order of the Star-Spangled Banner. Eventually nominating Fillmore for President in 1856, it won control of the Massachusetts legislature in 1854 under the name of the American Party.
 
It opposed voting rights for Catholics, supported literacy requirements for suffrage, and sought to prevent recent immigrants from holding public office. FTP, identify this party whose members were instructed to feign ignorance when asked about their supp
osedly secret political ideas.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul Know-Nothing}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul American}{\f0  Party
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8. It is named for a clergyman and geologist who fell to his death in a gorge two miles from its summit. Fraser fir and red spruce gives its crest a decidedly Canadian feel, altho
ugh the first have been damaged extensively by the woolly aphid and acide rain. Part of the 1 billion year-old black mountain chain, it is also part of the oldest state park in North Carolina. FTP, identify this highest American mountain east of the Missi
ssippi.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Mount Mitchell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. When she is born it is prophesied that she will become the most beautiful woman of Ireland and that she will bring bloodshed and death. To avert the prophecy, Conchobar, king of Ulster, determines to marry her when she 
comes of age. She is raised by the nurse Lavarcham.  Lavarcham's stories about Noisi, nephew of Conchobar, fire her imagination.  They meet, fall in love and flee to Scotland.  Upon return he is killed and she commits suicide.  Name her for 10 points. 

\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Deirdre}{\f0 
\par \page 10. He was sometimes referred to as 'the grin' or 'the Boy Scout Governor'. He was remarkably calm when an assassin's bullet barely missed him and mortally wounded the mayor of Chicago sitting next to him. When he was assistant Secretary of
 the Navy, he was the vice presidential running mate of James Cox. but they lost. When nominated for president later, he broke with tradition and flew immediately to Chicago from his home in Hyde Park for his acceptance speech. FTP, identify this part-tim
e resident of Warm Springs, Georgia and 32nd president of the US.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Franklin Delano Roosevelt}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. There are three types, most sensitive at about 450 nanometers, 550 nanometers, and 590, nanometers.  They operate only at relatively high levels of il
lumination and are concentrated in the fovea and less numerous in the peripheral retina.  For 10 points, identify these light-sensitive cells of the eye that are responsible for color vision.
\par \tab \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul cones}{\f0 
\par 
\par 12. The last name's the same:  Sterling, an influential African American critic who wrote }{\f0\ul The Southern Road}{\f0 ;  William Wells, the first known African-American to publish a novel, }{\f0\ul Clotel}{\f0 , in 1853;  William, the author of }{
\f0\ul The Power of Sympathy}{\f0 ;  Charles, who wrote the gothic novel }{\f0\ul Wieland}{\f0 ;  Dee, the author of }{\f0\ul Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee}{\f0 
;  Father, the fictional priest and detective in novels by GK Chesterton; and John, whose body is immortalized by Stephen Vincent Benet. FTP, give the literary name.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Brown}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 13.  Known for his moral integrity, h
e once publicly forced the emperor Theodosius into penance for his political execution of a group of Thessalonian Christians, even though Theodosius championed his favorite causes of abolishing paganism and arianism throughout the empire. FTP, identify th
is patron saint of Milan and Latin doctor of the church, hose eloquent preaching to St Augustine was indeed a divine food causing that former Manichaee and neo-Platonist to convert to Christianity. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Ambrose}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. Although Vasari called his painting
s 'flawless,' his original biography of this Florentine portrayed him as a fool whose art suffered under the influence of his wicked wife. His works foreshadow the manneristic style seen later in his pupil Pontormo, but still adhere to the classical stand
ards loved by his own teacher, Raphael. FTP, identify this creator of the 1514 }{\f0\ul Nativity of the Virgin}{\f0  and the 1517 }{\f0\ul Madonna of the Harpies}{\f0 , who was the subject of a dramatic monologue by Robert Browning.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Andrea }{\f0\ul del Sarto}{\f0    (not Fra Lippo Lippi!)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. He published his first volume of poetry, }{\f0\ul Permit Me Voyage}{\f0  in 1934, and his first novel, }{\f0\ul The Morning Watch}{\f0  in 1951. From 1948 until his death, he worked primarily as a scriptwriter, notably for }{\f0\ul 
The Night of the Hunter}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul The African Queen}{\f0 .  He is probably best known for his work for }{\f0\ul Fortune}{\f0  magazine, which yielded the lyrical }{\f0\ul Let Us Now Praise Famous Men}{\f0 
. FTP, identify this author of the 1957 pulitzer prize winning }{\f0\ul A Death in the Family}{\f0 . 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: James }{\f0\ul Agee}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. He may be the source of th
e semi-historical myth of Saradanapalus. His contribution to modern archaeology is undeniable, however, because the discovery of his great systematic library, the first of its kind known in the near East, has yielded great treasures such as the entire Epi
c of Gilgamesh. As a military leader, he was a failure,  and did not capitalize on the expansionist gains of his father, Esarhaddon. FTP, name this last of the great Assyrian kings, whose declining empire enabled the rise of the Babylonians. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Asshurbanipal}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. The creator of almost 1,000 catalogued works, he wrote more than 600 songs for piano. Like Haydn before him, he also tutored the daughters of Count Esterhazy but he favored and idolized Beethoven instead, and was buried in a grave adjoi
ning Beethoven's after his death in 1828, according to his own wishes. FTP, identify this composer of }{\f0\ul Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Earl-King}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Trout Quintet}{\f0 , the }{\f0\ul Great Symphony}{\f0 , the }{
\f0\ul Tragic Symphony}{\f0 , and an }{\f0\ul Unfinished Symphony}{\f0 .  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Franz }{\f0\ul Schubert}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. Early in his career, his courtship of Elizabeth Boyle inspired him to write the poetic cycle, the }{\f0\ul Amoretti}{\f0 
, as well as the marriage ode 'Epithalamion', and the early death of Sir Phillip Sidney inspired him to write the elegy 'Astrophel'. FTP, identify this author of }{\f0\ul The Shepheardes Calendar}{\f0 
, who developed his own specialized Vergilian epic stanza for his masterpiece glorifying England and Queen Elizabeth as the 'Faerie Queen'.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Edmund }{\f0\ul Spenser}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 19. The operator of this property of qu
antum mechanical particles is a generator of the group SU(2). Because it obeys SU(2), it can have half-integer values, which means that some particles have the strange property that they are not the same if you rotate them by 2 pi. FTP, name this property
 that determines whether a particle is a fermion or a boson.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul spin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20.  He commanded a volunter regiment during the Easter Rebellion, and barely escaped a firing squad. A founding member of the Republican  opposition party,  Fianna Fail, he even
tually became its first member to serve as Prime Minister. A tireless advocate of increased separation from Great Britain, he was instumental in renaming the Irish Free State as Eire in 1937. FTP, identify this man who served as Irish President from 1959 
to 1973, whose Latin-sounding name did not do justice to his fiery Irish partisanism.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Eamon }{\f0\ul de Valera}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. She served as a U.S. Circuit Court Judge from 1968 to 1979.  President Carter wanted her to serve in his cabinet and it is rumored that he
 promised that if she agreed to serve, she would be in line for his first Supreme Court appointment and thus become the first woman on the Supreme Court.  Of course, Carter never got to make a nomination for the Supreme Court, so we'll never know for sure
.  FTP, name this woman recently appointed to head the Commission on Immigration Reform, who served as Secretary of Education under Carter.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Shirley M. }{\f0\ul Hufstedler}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22.  He became president of Cincinnati College in 1836 and was later professor of m
oral philosophy at the University of Virginia until his death in 1873.  His books were largely collections of poems, stories, proverbs, mottos and drawings.  FTP, name the man whose books sold 122 million copies and shaped the minds of three generation of
 American school children.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: William Holmes }{\f0\ul McGuffey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. Their names mean 'gullet' and 'all thirsty'. The first was born through his mother's ear shouting, 'Drink, drink, drink,' and stole the bells of Notre Dame to hang around his mare's neck. Th
e second was the son of Babedec, and was so strong that he had to be chained to his cradle, but eventualy broke his bonds with one blow of his fist. FTP, name these two descendants of Gargamelle and Grandgousier, both title characters of Francois Rabelais
.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Gargantua and Pantagruel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 24. Its name means bull-headed.  Philip II had determined to destroy this high-spirited horse which no one could mount, but allowed his son to try his skill first.  Observing that the horse was terrified by its own sh
adow, Alexander turned its eyes into the sun, and was able to mount.  By taming him Alexander fulfilled an oracle concering the succession to the throne of Macedon.  Name the horse for ten points.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Bucephalis}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 25. This painter and sculptor once s
aid, 'Art is deformation.' His work is characterized by smooth, inflated shapes and themes from a variety of art periods. Some of his work includes 'Still Life with Mandolin,' 'Bridal Chamber: Homage to Mantegna,' and 'Mona Lisa, Age Twelve.' FTP, name th
is Latin American artist.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Fernando }{\f0\ul Botero}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 26. A sequence is said to converge if all the terms with index greater than N are within epsilon of the limit, in simple terms.  What type of convergence does a sequence of functions have if for every epsilon greater than zero, there is an N such that tha
t f sub k (x) is within epsilon of the limit function f(x) for every x and k greater than N?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul uniform convergence}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 27. He was a T'ang court poet, and, when he left the court, the emperor ordered that he be given an inexhaustible supply of wine, wh
ich he undoubtedly enjoyed since many of his poems deal with the pleasures of drink.  Most of his works are lost, but around 2000 of his works were collected in 1080 and survive today.  FTP, name this Taoist poet, one of the greatest figures of Chinese li
terature, who died, according to legend, when he fell out of a boat trying to embrace the reflection of the moon.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Li Po}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 28. For ten points, give the most recent name that goes on this list.  No, they are not heads of the Federal Reserve.  Edwin 
Nourse, Leon Keyserling, Arthur Burns, Raymond Saulnier, Walter Heller, Gardner Ackley, Arthur Okun, Paul McCracken, Herbert Stein, Alan Greenspan, Charles Schultze.
\par Murray Weidenbaum, Martin Feldstein, Beryl Sprinkel, Michael Boskin, and Laura Tyson.  Yes, they've all been head of the Council of Economic advisors. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Joseph }{\f0\ul Stiglitz}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page }{\b\f0 1997 ACF Regionals
\par Questions by Wake Forest University
\par }{\f0 
\par 1.\tab Identify the following twentieth century American artists from works on a 10-5 basis
\par 1. 10pts: }{\f0\ul The Ballad of the Jealous Lover}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Contemporary America}{\f0  5pts: }{\f0\ul The History of Missouri}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Cotton Pickers}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Thomas Hart }{\f0\ul Benton}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10pts: the avant-garde movies }{\f0\ul Chelsea Girls}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Trash}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul Sleep}{\f0  5pts: }{\f0\ul 200 Campbell Soup Cans}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Andy }{\f0\ul Warhol}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10pts: }{\f0\ul Lighthouse at Two Lights}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Cape Cod Afternoon}{\f0  5pts: }{\f0\ul Nighthawks}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Edward }{\f0\ul Hopper}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 2.\tab Name the states from the following clues for five points each
\par 1. It is the only state never to have had a foreign flag fly over it and, despite what many think, its name does not mean 'Gem of the Mountains' 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Idaho}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This state has the longest official name
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: (The State of) }{\f0\ul Rhode Island}{\f0  (and the Providence Plantations)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 5 pts: Three states are named after women. Name all three, all or nothing.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Virginia, Maryland and West Virginia}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. It is small but of great value, thus it is the Diamond State 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Delaware}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 3.\tab 30-20-10-5 Name the author
\par 1. His works }{\f0\ul A Confession,}{\f0  }{\f0\ul A Criticism of Dogmatic Theology}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul I Cannot Be Silent}{\f0 
 (1905) detail his view of mankind as a being of mystical inner light who should lead a simple life of poverty and toil. In addition, they reveal his dislike for the orthodox doctrines of the divinity of Christ and of the afterlife. 
\par 2. Some of his works include }{\f0\ul The Raid,}{\f0  }{\f0\ul The Kreutzer Sonata}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Sevastopol Sketches}{\f0 
\par 3. One of his famous anti-heroines throws herself under a train when she feels that her beloved Vronski no longer loves her, while another of his characters, the thoughtful Olenin, tires of urban life in Moscow and retires to the Caucasus. 
\par 4. He wrote }{\f0\ul War and Peace}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Leo }{\f0\ul Tolstoy}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 4.  How much do you really know about transcendentalism? For ten points each, answer the following questions about the transcendentalist movement: 
\par 1. This author and poet became editor of *The Dial* in 1840 and was also a critic for the New York Tribune from 1844 to 1846. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Margaret }{\f0\ul Fuller}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This commune was set up by transcendentalists in New England in 1841. It lasted until 1846.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Brook Farm}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. He started out a Presbyterian, but later became a Universalist, a Unitarian, then started his own church, and finally became a Roman Catholic.  He shares his name with Electra's brother. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Orestes Augustus }{\f0\ul Brownson}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 5. How much do you know about Albanian history? For 10 pts each, answer each of the following questions. 
\par 1.  Albania declared its independence in 1912.  From which great power did it break away?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: The }{\f0\ul Ottoman Empire}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2.  Finally, which communist ruled Albania from 1946 until his death in 1985?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Enver }{\f0\ul Hoxha}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3. The first step in the drive for independence was an 1878 meeting in ahouse near the banks of the Bistrica River. Name the city where this meeting took place. The league which was thereby established bears the city's name. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Prizren}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 6. Answer these questions about human blood, 5-10-15
\par 1. 5 pts: What is the scientific name for red blood cells 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Erythrocytes}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: a clot froms when this plasma protein is converted to its active form, fibrin 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Fibrinogen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 15 pts: These types of cells in the marrow later differeniate into the various types of blood cells
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul stem}{\f0  cells
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 7. Answer these questions from the Book of Genesis.
\par 1. 10 pts: He greeted two angels when they entered Sodom and 
invited them to his home, but a mob which included all the men in town surrounded the place and demanded that he send out the two guests so that the mob could have intimate relations with them. Naturally, the host refused. Name him.  \tab \tab Amswer:  }{
\f0\ul Lot}{\f0 
\par 2. 5 pts: Name Lot's more famous uncle.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Abraham}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
4. 15 pts: Lot was taken prisoner during a war and Abraham's forces rescued him. Afterward they celebrated with a priest who offered a sacrifice of bread and wine.  For ten points, name the priest, who neve
r mentions the God of Abraham, but is, strangely enough, the first priest mentioned in the Bible.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Melchizedek}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 8.  For 10 points each, name the following sculptors from works: 
\par 1. }{\f0\ul Burghers of Calais}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Gates of Hell}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Auguste }{\f0\ul Rodin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. }{\f0\ul Apollo and Daphne}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Bust of Innocent X}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Pluto and Proserpina}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Gian-Lorenzo }{\f0\ul Bernini}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. }{\f0\ul Running Fence}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Umbrellas}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Wrapped Riechstag}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Christo}{\f0  Javaceff
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 9. The greatest problem in physics at the end of the 19th century was understanding the
 nature of blackbody radiation, and many individuals made contributions to the theory before Max Planck finally solved the problem. Identify these pairs of individuals who worked in this field 5 points for one, 15 points for each.
\par 1. The two individuals who independently derived from thermodynamic principles that the intensity was proportional to the fourth power of the temperature. 
\par Hint: one of these scientists revolutionized Clausius' entropy theory by 
\par relating it to probability and disorder
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Josef }{\f0\ul Stefan}{\f0  and Ludwig }{\f0\ul Boltzman}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Name the members of a pair that developed the classical prediction for the intensity per unit wavelength that was proportio
nal to the temperature and inversely to the fourth power of the wavelength.  Their formula often bears the name 'ultraviolet catastrophe.' Hint: one of the scientists is better known for his work with noble gases
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Lord }{\f0\ul Rayleigh}{\f0  and Sir James Hopwood }{\f0\ul Jeans}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 10. Answer the following questions about music for 10 points each. 
\par 1. What did Brahms call the 1881 composition, which he wrote to acknowledge the completion of his doctorate from Breslau University? 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul Academic Festival Overture}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Name the 1892-94 Debussy work written to illustrate a famous poem by Stephane Melllarme'. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul The Afternoon of a Faun}{\f0  (aka L'apres-midi d'un Faune)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. A Czech composer born in Moravia, his works in the Czech folksong tradition include }{\f0\ul Jenufa}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Osul}{\f0 , and }{\f0\ul The House of the Dead}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Leos }{\f0\ul Janacek}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 11. For 10 points each, identify these famous native American from US History
\par 1. This leader led the only successful Indian war against the US government, forcing the abandonment of Forts Kearny, Renon and Smith in Wyoming and Montana in 1868, and abruptly halting expansion through those territories for a time 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Red Cloud}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. This English-speaking Pemaquid Chief made friends with the pilgrims, and introduced them to the Wampanoag chief Massassoit 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Samoset}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. This Sioux leader led the Ghost Dance movement, which was abruptly ended in 1890 by the massacre at Wounded Knee 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Wovoka}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 12. Answer the following questions about mitosis, 5-10-15
\par 1. 5 pts: name all four phases of mitosis in the order in which they occur 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase}{\f0  [in this order]
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: name the structure at which the two chromatids connect until they separate during anaphase 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul centromeres}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 15 pts: name the proteins around which DNA curls when it forms chromatids from the more amorphous chromatin 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul histones}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 13. Charles Dickens' }{\f0\ul A Christmas Carol}{\f0  gave us many memorable characters such as good ole' Ebeneezer Scrooge.  Identify these other characters from }{\f0\ul A Christmas Carol}{\f0 
. 
\par 1. For 5 points each, any two of Bob Crachit's three children.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Peter}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Martha}{\f0 , and (Tiny) }{\f0\ul Tim}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: Scrooge's deceased partner.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Jacob }{\f0\ul Marley}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10 pts: Scrooge's nephew who invites him to dinner.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Fred}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 14. For five points each, identify these assassinated world leaders
\par 1. In 330 BC, this Persian opponent of Alexander the Great was slain by his own Satrap, Bessus. Alexander promptly tortured and exceuted Bessus for killing a king 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Darius III}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. In 1610, this first Bourbon king and father of Louis XIII was killed by a fanatic monk, Jacques Clement 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Henry IV}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. The first native Prime Minister of an African nation formerly under colonial rule, this Congolese politician was shot by the Katanga secessionist regime of Moise Tshombe 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  Patrice }{\f0\ul Lumumba}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 15. Answer these questions about Homer's }{\f0\ul Odyssey}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-7056\li7056\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 1. 5pts: What flower encountered by Odysseus causes lethargy?  \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul lotus}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 5pts: With what Oceanid does Odysseus spend 7 years of amorous bliss on the island of Ogygia?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Calypso}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10pts: from what Theban does Odysseus learn how he can expiate Poseidon's great wrath?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Tiresias}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. 10pts: Odysseus loses 11 of his 12 ships to what cannibalistic tribe?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  the }{\f0\ul Laestrygones}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 16. Answer the following questions about literary bridges
\par 1. 5 pts: Who wrote the poem, 'The Bridge'?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Hart Crane}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10 pts: Which bridge is the central symbol in Hart Crane's poem?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul Brooklyn Bridge}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 5 pts: Name the 1927 Thornton Wilder novel about a collapsing Peruvian bridge 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul The Bridge of San Luis Rey}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. 10 pts: Name the protagonist of }{\f0\ul The Bridge of San Luis Rey}{\f0 , who investigates the lives of those involved in the seemingly random accide
nt and begins to see a sense of connectedness between the characters 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Brother }{\f0\ul Juniper}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 17. At the beginning of the 1996 NFL season, only 6 or more coaches had ten or more years of experience as a head football coach, though not necessarily with t
he team they coached in '96. For 5 pts each, identify these coaches, ignoring hirings and firings that may have occurred after the year started.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Dan }{\f0\ul Reeves}{\f0  (Giants), Jim }{\f0\ul Mora}{\f0  (Saints), Marv }{\f0\ul Levy}{\f0  (Bills), Ted }{\f0\ul Marchibroda}{\f0  (Ravens), Marty }{\f0\ul 
Schottenheimer}{\f0  (Chiefs), Bill }{\f0\ul Parcells}{\f0  (Patriots)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 18. Identify the following mountains for the stated number of points. 
\par 1. 5 pts: We all know that Everest is the world's highest mountain but, can you name the next two highest mountains in the world, both located in the central Himalayas.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Godwin-Austen}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul K-2}{\f0 ;  and }{\f0\ul Kanchenjunga}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 5 pts: No, it is not the Matterhorn or Mont Blanc, but this 18,481-foot peak in the Caucasus is the highest mountain in Europe 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Elbrus}{\f0  or }{\f0\ul Elbruz}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10 pts: This 16,864-foot peak is the highest mountain in Antarctica 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Vinson Massif}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. 10 pts: Mt. Jaja is the highest mountain in the world not located on one of the 7 continents.  On which large island is it located?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul New Guinea}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 19. Identify the following philosophers from works on a 10-5 basis
\par 1. 10pts:  }{\f0\ul The Life of Reason}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Skepticism and Animal Faith}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Dialogues in Limbo}{\f0 
\par 5pts: }{\f0\ul The Last Puritan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: George }{\f0\ul Santayana}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10pts: }{\f0\ul Lysimachus}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Arsace and Ismenie}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Persian Letters}{\f0  5pts: }{\f0\ul The Spirit of Laws}{\f0  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Charles de Secondat }{\f0\ul Montesquieu}{\f0  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. 10pts: }{\f0\ul Essays in Radical Empiricism}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Will to Believe}{\f0 ,}{\f0\ul A Pluralistic Universe}{\f0 
\par 5pts: }{\f0\ul The Varieties of the Religious Experience}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul Principles of Psychology}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  William }{\f0\ul James}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 20. Identify the bloodthirsty ruler, 30-20-10
\par 1. When he retired to the isle of Capri after reigning for 12 years, stories about the orgiastic excesses began to quickly circulate
\par 2. Although he returned to power to stop the reign of terror imposed by his chief lietenant, Sejanus, he hims
elf inaugurated another bloody purge making him even more unpopular before. Years before, he had already arranged for the assassination of his brother, Germanicus, whose popularity he despised
\par 3. Although he had already arranged for the voluntary suicide of his political opponent, Agrippina the Elder, in 29 AD, he was succeeded by her son, Caligula, after his death in the year 37.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer:  }{\f0\ul Tiberius}{\f0  Julius Caesar Augustus
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 21. Answer the following questions about the eccentric scientist Richard Feynman, FTSNOP
\par 1. 5pts: Although Feynman once played something resembling a frying pan in a Brazilian band he was most noted for playing what percussion instrument?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul bongo drums}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. 10pts. Once, a physics colloquium wanted to bring culture to a convention 
by inviting a lecturer on the math of an American indigenous civilization. Imagine the coordinator's surprise to learn that Feynman was the leading expert! FTP, what civilization' s astronomical tables did Feynman decode for fun while on honeymoon with hi
s second wife?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul Mayans}{\f0 '
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
3. 15pts: Once, when another research group presented a talk on a type of Feynman diagram named after an odd type of bird, Feynman protested that the diagram looked nothing like its fowlish namesake.  His protests provo
ked the response, 'Shut up, Richard!  Feynman diagrams don't look anything like you!' What non-flying avian's honor was Feynman defending?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul penguin}{\f0  (The researchers had lost a bet, so they had to use the word penguin in their research.  They chos
e to name the type of Feynman diagrams Penguin diagrams.)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 22. Name the individual: 30-20-10:
\par 1. He rose to the rank of Major General during the Civil War, and served as governor of both Indiana and New Mexico, and as U.S. minister to Turkey. 
\par 2. We know him better as an author.  Among his works are }{\f0\ul The Life of Benjamin Harrison}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul the Prince of India}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Fair God}{\f0 , and his most famous, whose subtitle is }{\f0\ul A Tale of the Christ}{\f0 .  
\par 3. He is the author of }{\f0\ul Ben-Hur}{\f0 .
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Lew }{\f0\ul Wallace}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 23. Are you familiar with various crystal types?  If you've had inorganic chemistry, you are.  Match the crystal type: monoclinic, orthorhombic, hexagonal, or cubic, with their associated point groups for 10 points each. 
\par 1. T sub d, the full point group of a tetrahedron.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul cubic}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. C sub 2, in which rotations of 180 degrees map the crystal onto itself.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul monoclinic}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. D sub 3h, the symmetries of a regular triangle in the plane and another reflection plane.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul hexagonal}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0  Name the composer from works, 30-20-10
\par 1. }{\f0\ul The Old Maid and the Thief}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Gorgon and the Manticore}{\f0 
\par 2. }{\f0\ul The Medium}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Telephone}{\f0 , }{\f0\ul The Consul}{\f0 
\par 3. }{\f0\ul Amahl and the Night Visitors}{\f0 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Gian-Carlo }{\f0\ul Menotti}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \page 26. Identify these famous Americans, for ten points each.  All have last name's beginning with R. 
\par 1. A successful corporation lawyer, he was Secretary of War, 1899-1904, Secretary of State, 1905-09, and winner of the 1912 Nobel Peace Prize. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Elihu }{\f0\ul Root}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. On July 1, 1776, Delaware's delegates to the
 Continental Congress were split on Lee's resolution to adopt the Declaration of Independence.  This delegate made an 80 mile voyage, using a relay of fresh horses, to gallop to Philadelphia and break the Delaware delegate's tie. 
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Caesar }{\f0\ul Rodney}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3.
 Born of free parents in Fayetteville, NC in 1827, and educated at Knox College, this minister of the African Methodist Church, served as chaplain of the Negro regiment at Vicksburg, Miss, served as president of Alcorn Agricultural College, and was chosen
 by the Mississippi legislature in 1870 to complete the Senate term begun by Jefferson Davis, becoming the first black to serve in the U.S. Senate. 
\par \tab \tab Answer Hiram Rhoades }{\f0\ul Revels}{\f0 
\par 
\par 27. Answers these musical questions, the first is worth ten points, the others are worth five. 
\par 1. 10pts: Name any year in which Antonio Stradivari lived.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul 1644-1737}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Of what instrument was the sackbut a predecessor?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: the }{\f0\ul trombone}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. What group sang the rock-n-roll classic, Louie Louie?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul The Kingsmen}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. Now identify the composers of these patriotic songs:
\par First, 'You're a Grand Old Flag'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: George M. }{\f0\ul Cohan}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 5. Second, 'Stars and Stripes Forever'
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: John Philip }{\f0\ul Sousa}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 28. Name the writer: 20-15-10, with an additional 10 pointer at the end.
\par 1. 20pts: A selection of 100 of her poems have been translated into English under the title 'View with a Grain of Sand.'  Poems range from 'Calling out to Yeti'; written in 1957, to 'The End and the Beginning' written in 1993.  The Yeti in her poems is as
sociated with Josef Stalin. 
\par 2. 15pts: From 1953 to 1981, she was on the editorial staff of the Polish intellectual magazine Zycie Literackie (Literary Life).  One of her best known poems is The Joy of Writing, which includes the passage The joy of writing.
\par Power of preserving.
\par The revenge of a mortal hand.
\par 3. 10pts: She won the Nobel Literature Prize in 1996.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Wislawa }{\f0\ul Szymborska}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. 5pts each:  Szymborska is the fourth Pole to win the literature prize.  
\par For five points each, name any two of the other three.  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Henryk }{\f0\ul Sienkiewicz}{\f0  (1905), Wladyslaw }{\f0\ul Reymont}{\f0  (1924), Czeslaw }{\f0\ul Milosz}{\f0  (1980)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 29. Answer these questions about the U-2 Incident for five points each and a five point bonus for getting them all correct. 
\par 1. Who was president of the U.S. and who was Soviet Premier at the time of the incident?  
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Eisenhower}{\f0  and }{\f0\ul Khruschev}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. Who piloted the U-2 which was shot down on May 1, 1960?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Francis Gary }{\f0\ul Powers}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. For which Soviet spy was Powers exchanged in February, 1962.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: Colonel Rudolph }{\f0\ul Abel}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 4. In which city did the exchange take place?
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul Berlin}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 
\par 30. This bonus features adventures in plasma physics!!!!! For ten points each, give the following terms from their definitions: 
\par 1. A magnetic field used to confine plasma during nuclear fusion.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: a }{\f0\ul magnetic bottle}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 2. The flow of plasma ejected into space from a star.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul stellar wind}{\f0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 3. Constriction of plasma produced by the plasma's own electric current.
\par }\pard \fi-1296\li1296\nowidctlpar\tx-720\tx0\tx720\hyphpar0\adjustright {\f0 \tab Answer: }{\f0\ul pinch effect}{\f0 
\par }}