{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset186 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs24 History 6-8\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In 1266, it was partitioned into lines at Stendal and Salzwedel, but was reunified in 1324 under Louis I of the Wittelsbachs.  Under the control of the house of Luxembourg from 1373 to 1417, Albert the Bear established this Margraviate in 1136.  Inheriting the Duchy of Kleves in 1609, rulers of its last house included John the Alchemist, Frederick II Irontooth and Albert III Achilles.  An electorate of the Holy Roman Empire from 1356 on, it passed to the house of Hohenzollern in 1415. FTP, name this German electorate with capital at Berlin, whose Margraves inherited Prussia in 1618.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Brandenburg\ulnone\b0  (Do not accept or prompt on _Prussia_)\par
\par
The first Han Chinese to hold a viceroyalty and become an imperial counselor without any sort of imperial examination degree, he was appointed Chinese commissioner to Seoul in 1885, his actions there were a small part of the causes of the first Sino-Japanese War.  Made the viceroy of Zhili (the metropolitan province) in 1901, he was stripped of his titles in 1908 at the death of Cixi (pron: Tsi-hsi).  He had gained in political stature when his division was the only part of the Chinese military to survive the Boxer uprising, and despite his dismissal in 1908, by 1911 he was the only man acceptable to both the conservatives in Beijing and the provisional government in Nanjing.  FTP, name this man, president of the Republic of China from 1911 to 1916.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Yuan\ulnone\b0  Shikai\par
\par
Founded in 1884, in Texas, it was technically the Texas & New Orleans, because that state had a law forbidding out-of-state railroads from operating in it.  It gained access to St. Louis with its acquisition of the Saint Louis Southwestern, or Cotton Belt and it was sold to the owners of the Denver, Rio Grande & Western in 1988, eventually absorbing that railroad.  Famous trains on this railroad included the Daylight Express and the Sunset Limited, and its most famous subsidiary was the Central Pacific.  Established by the Big Four of the Central Pacific and headquartered in San Francisco, FTP, name this octopus of a railroad.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Southern Pacific\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar One of its initial codenames was identical to the name of a James Bond movie from 11 years earlier, though it was later renamed to honor the operation leader who did not survive, the brother of a future prime minister.  To achieve surprise, the lead C-130 Hercules brought along a black Mercedes and Land Rovers, allowing the initial attack force to mimic the form of convoy used by all senior officers in the Ugandan army.   FTP, what 1976 rescue of more than 100 hostages, now officially named Operation Yonathan for Yonathan Netanyahu but also known by the name of the airport where it occurred, was allegedly first thought of by Ehud Barak?\par
\pard\tab Answer: the \ul\b Entebbe\ulnone\b0  rescue or Operation Thunderball or Operation Thunderbolt (accept early Operation Yonathan or Operation Jonathan)\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In a letter to his brother he remarked, \ldblquote I have heard the bullets whistle; and, believe me, there is something charming in the sound,\rdblquote  and this quote was mocked by both author Horace Walpole and King George II.  During an expedition, the French made him promise not to build another fort in Ohio, and he acknowedged his \i assassinat\i0  of commander Coulon de Jumonville, though he didn\rquote t understand what the word meant.  These exploits in the French and Indian War came while he was Lt. Colenol under Joshua Fry and after his surrender of Great Meadows also known as Fort Necessity. FTP name this man later known for his bravery after the death of General William Braddock and during the American Revolution as head of colonial forces.\par
\pard\tab Answer:  George \ul\b Washington\ulnone\b0  \par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The Afghan soldier of fortune Sher Shah defeated him in battle at Chausa, forcing him out of power.  After that, he became a homeless wanderer, roaming around India looking for support, which finally came from Shah Tahmasp, who helped him wrest Kandahar away from his usurping brother Kamran.  By 1555 he became emperor again, and he is known for his octagonal tomb in Delhi made of red sandstone, though he did not plan it, as he died suddenly in 1556 due to a fall down his library staircase. FTP, name this son of Babur and father of Akbar, the second Mughul ruler of India.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Humayun\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
His promising career ended over his opposition to his direct superior's brainchild, the naval invasion of the Dardanelles.  His first major post was as director of naval ordnance, where he made waves by lambasting the general standard of marksmanship in the navy.  He had a greater impact later in life, however.  In addition to switching over to oil as a fuel source, he introduced the \i Invincible\i0 -class battle cruiser during his tenure as First Sea Lord.  FTP, identify this man, best known for directing the creation of HMS \i Dreadnought\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: John Arbuthnot "Jackie" \ul\b Fisher\ulnone\b0\par
\par
The creation of a mercenary \lquote third force\rquote  army and the conversion of state provinces to \i khassa\i0 , or crown lands, ultimately led to their downfall in the late seventeenth century. First coming to prominence with the backing of the Azerbaijani \i Qizilbash\i0 , this dynasty was handicapped by both Afghan and Ottoman invaders. Ismail I and Abbas the Great were the two most notorious Shahs of, FTP, what dynasty, which established Shi\rquote ism as the state religion of Iran?\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Safavid\ulnone\b0 s\par
\par
Lit\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Hu San Niang, whose name literally means Third Daughter Hu, is one of the leaders, as is the former village constable Wu Song.  Li Kui, a former prison guard, is noted for his strength and ferocity.  Lin Chong fled his position as an imperial arms instructor when a commander\rquote s son slandered him out of lust for Lin\rquote s wife, while Lu Da, or Sagacious Lu, was forced to flee the law after he killed a corrupt butcher.  However, the overall leader is former clerk Song Jiang.  FTP, these characters all appear in what major work of traditional Chinese literature, traditionally attributed to Luo Guanzhong and Shi Nai\rquote an?\par
\tab Answer: The \ul\b Water Margin\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b All Men are Brothers\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Outlaws of the Marsh\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Shuihuzhuan\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Members of the title character\rquote s family became \ldblquote illustrious by the pen of Thackeray and the pencil of Doyle,\rdblquote  and have held the \ldblquote yew-bow and cloth-yard shaft at Cressy and Agincourt,\rdblquote  among other things.  The first part of the book is under the \ldblquote Vale of the White Horse\rdblquote  near Uffington, where the author grew up.  Largely autobiographical, the work chronicles a boy tormented by Flashman, a bully, who then overcomes his trials, doing well both academically and athletically, setting the stage for the 1861 sequel, where he is \ldblquote at Oxford.\rdblquote   Set during Thomas Arnold\rquote s headmastership at Rugby College, FTP name this novel written by Thomas Hughes.\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Tom Brown\rquote s School Days\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Thomas Carlyle translated it into English and in a commentary on it remarked on the peacefulness of the author after his first melodramatic novel.  Characters include the Abb\'e9, Werner, Jarno, Filina, Mignon, and Felix, the title character\rquote s son, who figures into the sequel, traveling around Europe with his father.  After being spurned by his love, the protagonist wanders around and saves a young girl from a group of mean traveling acrobats and joins a theater troupe.  FTP name this 1795 novel by Goethe often cited as the prototypical \i Bildungsroman\i0 .\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Wilhelm Meister\rquote s Apprenticeship\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Wilhelm Meisters Wanderjahhre\ulnone\b0\par
\par
After World War II, during which time his father was killed at Buchenwald, he studied at the Sorbonne before teaching at City College in New York and Boston University.  Novels include \i The Fifth Son\i0 , \i The Town Beyond the Wall\i0 , and \i A Beggar in Jerusalem\i0 .  His most famous work was written at the behest of the French writer Francois Mauriac and was originally titled \i Un di velt hot geshivgn\i0 , or \i And the World Remained Silent\i0 .  FTP name this winner of the 1986 Nobel Peace Prize famous for his novels of the Holocaust, \i Day\i0  and \i Night\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Elie \ul\b Wiesel\ulnone\b0  \par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The protagonist\rquote s father is a writer of children\rquote s books, while his mother is a sickly woman who dies soon after discovering that her husband is having an affair. Most of this novel takes place within \'e9migr\'e9 communities in Paris and Berlin, where the protagonist suffers a nervous breakdown after a chess match with the Italian Turatti. FTP name this 1930 Vladimir Nabokov novel that chronicles the life and death of Alexander Luzhin.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Luzhin\rquote s Defense\ulnone\b0  or The \ul\b Defense\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Zashchita Luzhina\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
His novels, such as \i The Laughing Matter\i0  and \i The Human Comedy\i0 , are not as well known as his other works, but they share the same cheerful irreverence.  He was offered the 1940 Pulitzer, but refused it, claiming that his play \i The Time of Your Life\i0  was no more deserving than his other works.  FTP, name this Depression-era author, son of Armenian immigrants, best known for such short story collections as \i Inhale and Exhale\i0  and \i The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: William \ul\b Saroyan\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
Science:\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar This theorem can be proven as a corollary of the fact that the fundamental group of the circle is the integers.  It is equivalent to the statement that the field of complex numbers is algebraically closed.  A better known proof from complex analysis deduces the theorem as a simple corollary of Liouville\rquote s theorem.  FTP, name this theorem which states that every polynomial with complex coefficients has at least one root.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Fundamental Theorem of Algebra\ulnone\b0\par
\par
With Robertson, an effect of the Sun\rquote s radiation that causes small particles orbiting the Sun to approach it and gradually fall in.  More famously, the energy flux of a propagating electromagnetic wave and a theorem that describes the relationship between work done by electric and magnetic fields and the energy stored in them.  FTP, give this name, best known as naming a vector that gives the power per unit area transported by electric and magnetic fields.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Poynting\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0\par
Its difluoride was used in the preparation of the perbromate ion, previously considered impossible.  Its difluoride, tetrafluoride and hexafluoride all react explosively with water, and the hexafluoride can even produce detonation with quartz.   An extremely useful, though expensive, anaesthetic, it was discovered in 1898 and is obtained by fractional distillation of air.  In 1962, in an experiment inspired by the fact that its first ionization energy is almost identical to that of molecular oxygen,  its hexafluoroplatinate became the first compound of it ever isolated.  FTP, name this second-heaviest of the noble gases.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Xe\ulnone\b0 non\par
\par
As high as 12 in a carboxylic acid or 10 in an aldehyde, more typical values are approximately 3 and a half for an alkyl halide.  Although it is actually a tensor, dependent on orientation, in its best-known application, it is observed as a scalar, the average over all orientations.  Measured against a reference sample of tetra methyl silane, it is used to determine the degree of shielding or deshielding of a nucleus, and it is split into symmetrical peaks by coupling.  FTP, identify this quantity, measured in NMR.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b chemical shift\ulnone\b0  (prompt on delta)\par
\par
Its characteristic feature was also found in the herbivorous Edaphosaurus.  Although it is often thought of by the ignorant as a dinosaur, it was not even a lizard, nor did it live during the Mesozoic, and it was actually closely related to the mammal-like therapsids.  Its name refers to its dentition, but it is better known for a structure that aided in thermoregulation.  FTP, identify this Permian creature, with a name meaning "two-measures tooth," that carried around a big sail on its back.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Dimetrodon\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 Its rate can be found by using the equation df/dt = t/Lsin(i) where \ldblquote f\rdblquote  is the true anomaly, \ldblquote t\rdblquote  is the torque, \ldblquote L\rdblquote  is the angular momentum, and \ldblquote i\rdblquote  is the inclination.  For planets, it is \ldblquote obliquity-induced\rdblquote , and using Euler\rquote s equations of motion, one can describe the \ldblquote free\rdblquote  sort.  The result of gravitational force attempting to align the axis of rotation with the normal to the orbital plane, this is FTP, what periodic circular rotation of the spin axis of a rotating body?\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Precession\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Music\ul\b\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 Commissioned to celebrate the coronation of Emperor Leopold II as King of Bohemia, this opera is considered to be the last masterpiece of opera seria.  With an old libretto by Pietro Metastasio, its spare scoring, short arias, and generally restrained style caused it to be dismissed recently, though it was one of Mozart\rquote s most admired operas in the decades after his life.  FTP, name this opera, Mozart\rquote s last, which concerns a conspiracy to assassinate a Roman emperor and his decision to pardon the conspirators.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b La Clemenza di Tito\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b The Clemency of Titus\ulnone\b0\par
\par
The second movement, \ldblquote For all flesh is as grass\rdblquote , features a well-known slow march theme.  The soprano soloist sings only in the fifth movement, \ldblquote And ye now therefore have sorrow\rdblquote : the movement was added in response to the death of the composer\rquote s mother.  With uplifting and hopeful excerpts from the bible, chosen by the composer, and dedicated to his mother, Robert Schumann, and all humanity, FTP, name this work, Brahms\rquote s first major orchestral success.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Ein Deutsches Requiem\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b A German Requiem\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
art\par
\par
Baciccia's fresco \i Triumph in the Name of Jesus\i0  adorns the ceiling.  The dynamic facade was designed Giacomo della Porta.  Notable features of the interior are the exceptionally wide nave and the short transept.  Five other architects, most notably Vignola and Michelangelo, had a hand in the design of this church, which contains relics of Francis Xavier and Ignatius Loyala.  FTP, identify this Jesuit church, considered the prototype of sacred Baroque architecture.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Il Gesu\ulnone  \b0 (accept: church of the Holy Name of Jesus)\par
\par
SS\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Born in 1902 in Oak Park, Illinois, he studied at the Union Theological Seminary  before getting his psychology Ph.D from Columbia.  Unlike Maslow, he applied the idea of the \ldblquote actualizing tendency\rdblquote  to nonhuman life, including mushrooms and seaweed and even entire ecosystems.  Describing the ideal of a \ldblquote fully functioning person\rdblquote , he attached much importance to \ldblquote congruence\rdblquote , or communication of one\rquote s authentic self to the world, as well as the lack of \ldblquote conditions of worth\rdblquote .   In psychotherapy, he said, patients should receive \ldblquote unconditional positive regard.\rdblquote   FTP, name this founder of client-centered therapy.\par
\tab Answer: Carl Ransom \ul\b Rogers\ulnone\b0\par
\par
It has never been explicated by the Supreme Court, and only one successful claim appears ever to have been brought directly under it, in the 2nd Circuit case of\i  Engblom v. Carey\i0 .  During a 1979 prison strike, defendent Governor Carey activated the National Guard to staff prisons, and the plaintiff prison employees were evicted from their rented on-site housing so that Guardsmen could be housed there.  The majority in\i  Engblom\i0  held that National Guardsmen were \ldblquote Soldiers\rdblquote  for purposes of, and one not literally an \ldblquote owner\rdblquote  could be protected by, FTP, what constitutional amendment barring the nonconsensual peacetime quartering of soldiers in private houses?\par
\pard\tab Answer: the \ul\b Third\ulnone\b0  Amendment\par
\par
Geo:\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Its flag, like that of Tuvalu, is a stylized map: the blue background represents the Pacific Ocean, the middle yellow stripe represents the Equator, and the white star below the yellow line - with twelve points for its twelve tribes - represents its location just 26 miles south of the Equator.   The central 80 to 90 percent of its territory is now a barren wasteland of pits and pillars, the result of extensive phosphate mining.  FTP, name this smallest independent republic in the world, which lacks an official capital but has its government offices in the Yaren District.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Republic of \ul\b Nauru\ulnone\b0  (or Naoero)\par
\par
RMP\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His consort was Chalchiuhtlicue, also known as Matlalcueye.  Similar to the Mayan god Chac, five months of the Aztec eighteen month ritual calendar were dedicated to him.  The top of Aztec high temple in Tenochtitlan had two pavilions, one dedicated to Huitzilopochtli and one, painted blue and white, dedicated to him.  Certain diseases, such as dropsy, rheumatism and leprosy were part of his domain and his name means \ldblquote he who makes things sprout.\rdblquote   FTP, name this Aztec god of rain.  \par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Tlaloc\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Some of his nom de plumes include Constantine Constantinus and Johannes de Silento.  He began writing upon the break-up of his relationship to Regine Olsen, his fianc\'e9e.  Attending the School of Civic Virtue in 1821 and university in 1830, he originally planned to study theology, but was drawn to philosophy.  He is known as the \ldblquote father of existentialism.\rdblquote   FTP, name this Danish philosopher, author of \ul Sickness Unto Death\ulnone , \ul Fear and Trembling\ulnone , and \ul Either/Or\ulnone .\par
\pard\tab Answer:  Soren \ul\b Kierkegaard\ulnone\b0\par
\par
He was significant in the Middle Ages for his Latin translations of many of the main works of Aristotle, a feat which allowed these works to be transmitted to medieval Europe.  Today, however, this feat and his governmental service under Theodoric are overshadowed by appreciation of his major work, a treatise translated into English by such figures as Chaucher, Elizabeth I, and Alfred the Great.  FTP, identify this philosopher of 5th and 6th century Italy, whose most famous work, composed in prison while awaiting execution, was \i The Consolation of Philosophy\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Anicius Manlius Severinus \ul\b Boethius\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Bonuses\par
\par
History\par
\par
Identify the following Byzantine rulers, 5-10-15.\par
[5]  Perhaps the greatest emperor of the Byzantine Empire, he ruled from 978-1025 and succeeded the usurper-generals Nicephorus II and John I.  He brought the Empire to its height of power and annexed its neighbors to the north, an accomplishment which earned him his graphic cognomen.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Basil II\ulnone\b0  (accept Basil the Bulgar-Slayer or Basil Bulgaroktonos)\par
[10] A canny ruler and bad mother, she was the only woman ever to be formal ruler of the Empire, an accomplishment achieved in part by ordering the blinding of her only son, Constantine VI.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Irene\ulnone\b0\par
[15] One of the many incompetents who ushered the once-mighty Empire along its path to destruction was this ex-general.  He was convicted of treason and sentenced to death before catching the eye of the empress-regent, who married him.  Her choice was proved to be an error when this bumbler lost the catastrophic battle of Manzikert.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Romanus IV\ulnone\b0  (accept Romanus Diogenes)\par
\par
Identify the following figures in Europe's push towards integration, FTSNOP.\par
[5] One of the first steps in economic integration was this organization, formed in 1952, which sought to unify 2 particular industries.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b European Coal and Steel Community\ulnone\b0  (accept ECSC)\par
[15] The ECSC was primarily the brainchild of 2 Frenchmen, one the foreign minister in 1950, when the idea was first proposed, and the head of the French planning agency, who helped flesh out the details.  Name them, 5 for one, 15 for both.\par
\tab Answer: Robert \ul\b Schuman\ulnone\b0  and Jean \ul\b Monnet\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Britain's absention from this agreement lead to the UK's exclusion from further integration arrangements.  That trend was finally reversed in 1973, when this prime minister negotiated Britain's entry into the EEC.\par
\tab Answer: Ted \ul\b Heath\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 FTPE name these Russian generals who served under Catherine the Great: \par
[10] He suppressed such popular uprisings as the Pugachev rebellion, but is most notorious for his victories over the Turks in the Russo-Turkish war of 1787-91.\par
\tab Answer: Aleksander Vasil\rquote yevich \ul\b Suvorov\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Having gained military experience in Poland and Turkey, he was responsible for repulsing Napoleon\rquote s invasion of Russia in 1812.\par
\tab Answer: Mikhail Illarionovich \ul\b Kutuzov\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Known in Iran as the \lquote bloodletter,\rquote  he was responsible for the Russian conquest of Georgia in the early 1800s.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Prince Pavel \ul\b Tsitsianov\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 Identify these figures of the greatest renaissance of all, the Carolingian Renaissance, for ten points each.\par
[10] He was abbot of St. Martin at Tours after 796 and encouraged his monks to write in Caroline miniscule, a hand which he may have invented.  This Englishman also reedited the Vulgate and propagated his namesake Bibles throughout Europe.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Alcuin\ulnone\b0\par
[10] This former monk at the monastery of Fulda wrote the most famous biography of Charlemagne.  His \i Vita Caroli Magni\i0  was modeled after Suetonius\rquote  \i Life of Augustus\i0 .\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Einhard\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Eginhard\ulnone\b0\par
[10] This Italian was once involved in an anti-Frankish plot against Charlemagne, and he and his brother were arrested.  However, legend goes that Charlemagne was so impressed with his poetry that he made him a member of his court.  Today he is best known for his \i History of the Lombards\i0 .\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Paul the Deacon\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Paulus Diaconus\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Identify the major American city from a description of its early years for ten points each.\par
[10] This city was founded by Francois Pierre Choteau in the 1821 and by 1830 was known as Westport Landing.  In 1853 it received its current designation, named for the river which flows into the Missouri at its site.\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Kansas City\ulnone\b0 , Missouri\par
[10] At a spot now known as Five Points a railway station was built in 1837, and this gave the city its first name, Terminus.  It was also known as Marthasville before taking its current name from a railroad in 1845.\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Atlanta\ulnone\b0 , Georgia (the railroad is the Western Atlantic)\par
[10] The city began as the two rival towns Auraria and St. Charles, though William Larimer jumped St. Charles\rquote  gold claim and renamed the town in 1858 after the then-governor of the Kansas Territory, of which this city was once a part.\par
\pard\tab Answer:  \ul\b Denver\ulnone\b0 , Colorado\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar FTSNOP, answer the following questions about the last of the original 13 states to ratify the Constitution.\par
[5] First, for 5 points, name the state.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Rhode Island\ulnone\b0  and Providence Plantations\par
[5] For another 5, name the religious dissident who founded Rhode Island.\par
\tab Answer: Roger \ul\b Williams\ulnone\b0\par
[10] For 10 points, name the 1842 rebellion that pitted a People\rquote s Convention, which had attempted to grant universal male suffrage, against the existing Charterite government.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Dorr\ulnone\b0\rquote s Rebellion (or the Dorr War or Dorr\rquote s War or the Dorr Rebellion)\par
[10] For a final 10 points, name the only Republican politician who was consistently successful in predominantly Democratic post-World-War-II Rhode Island, serving as Governor for 16 years and Senator for 23 more.  He died in 1999 and was replaced in the Senate by his son Lincoln. \par
\pard\tab Answer: John \ul\b Chafee\ulnone\b0\par
\ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 Answer the following about Napoleon\rquote s Spanish Ulcer, FTPE.  \par
[10] The Spanish junta, the \i de facto\i0  government of Spain was based out of this fortified port city that French forces never conquered.  \par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Cadiz\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Wellington built these defensive fortifications stretching thirty miles from the Tago to the Atlantic north of Lisbon between 1809 and 1810.  They were so impregnable-looking that Marshal Massenas never seriously tried to assault them.\par
\tab Answer: Lines of \ul\b Torres Vedras\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Wellington scored a decisive victory over Marmont at this July 22, 1812 battle in central Spain, but lacked the strength to drive France completely from the peninsula.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Battle of \ul\b Salamanca\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 Identify the following figures from the Song dynasty, FTPE.\par
[10] Prime Minister to the emperor Shenzong  from 1069 to 1074 and 1075 to 1076, his \ldblquote New Policies\rdblquote  are considered by some to be a primitive form of socialism.  \par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Wang\ulnone\b0  Anshi \par
[10]Wang Anshi\rquote s principal opponent, this man is perhaps best noted for his seminal historical work \i Comprehensive Mirror for Aid in Government\i0 .  \par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Sima\ulnone\b0  (pron: Suhma) Guang\par
[10] A patron of Wang Anshi\rquote s, he served in various government posts from 1030 to 1060.  As a writer, he is noted for his promotion of the simple ancient style and his \i  New History of the Five Dynasties\i0  and \i New History of the Tang Dynasty\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b\f1 Ouyang\ulnone\b0  Xiu (pron: Sy\'e7\'f4)\ul\b\f0\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Lit\ul\b\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 Identify these European war memoirs, 5-10-15:\par
[5] Published in 1929, this Erich Maria Remarque work epitomizes the disillusionment and pacifism of the postwar decade.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b All Quiet on the Western Front\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Im Westes Nichts Neues\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Written only a few months after the author\rquote s return to England, this 1938 George Orwell work described his experiences fighting in the Spanish Civil War.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Homage to Catalonia\ulnone\b0\par
[15] Ernst Junger chronicled his life in the trenches and glorified the special mission of the German people in this 1920 memoir.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Storm of Steel\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b In Stahlgewittern\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 Five points each, and a bonus five for all correct, given where it is set, name the Shakespeare play.\par
[5] Ephesus (and nowhere else)\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Comedy of Errors\ulnone\b0\par
[5] Vienna\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Measure for Measure\ulnone\b0\par
[5] Sicily, Bohemia\par
\tab Answer: The \ul\b Winter\rquote s Tale\ulnone\b0\par
[5] Antioch, Mytilene, Ephesus, Pentapolis, Tarsus\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Pericles\ulnone\b0 , Prince of Tyre\par
[5] Rousillion, Paris, Florence, Marseilles\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b All\rquote s Well that Ends Well\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following about writings concerning a famous historical person.\par
[10] In this George Bernard Shaw work, one of his first successes, the mail title character finds his future love hiding between the paws of the Sphinx after she is forced out of Alexandria.\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Caesar and Cleopatra\ulnone\b0\par
[10] This 16\super th\nosupersub -century French playwright is credited with writing the first original French plays observing classical rules and works include the comedy \i La Tr\i0\'e9\i sori\'e8re\i0 , or \i The Paymistress\i0 , and the tragedy \i La Mort de C\i0\'e9\i sar\i0 , both appearing in his 1561 collection \i Th\i0\'e9\i\'e2tre\i0 .\par
\tab Answer:  Jacques \ul\b Gr\'e9vin\par
\ulnone\b0 [10] This later French writer attempted to revive tragedy in France by imitating Shakespeare, writing his own \i La Mort de C\i0\'e9\i sar\i0  in 1735.  Other unsuccessful Shakespeare knockoffs of his include \i Brutus\i0 , \i Discours \'e1 milord Bolingbroke\i0 , and \i Eriphyle\i0 , whose \i Hamlet\i0 -style\i  \i0 ghost was roundly booed in a performance.\par
\lang1036\tab Answer:  \ul\b Voltaire\ulnone\b0  or Fran\'e7ois-Marie \ul\b Arouet\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\lang1033 Identify the following related literary things for ten points each.\par
[10] This cycle of novels by Robertson Davies concerns the lives of three men in a small Ontario town and includes \i Fifth Business\i0 , \i The Manticore\i0 , and \i World of Wonders\i0 .\par
\tab Answer:  The \ul\b Deptford\ulnone\b0  Trilogy\par
[10] This writer sometimes known as Joseph Kell wrote the 1993 novel \i A Dead Man in Deptford\i0  under his more popular name, his two middle names.\par
\tab Answer:  Anthony \ul\b Burgess\ulnone\b0  or John Anthony Burgess \ul\b Wilson\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\i  A Dead Man in Deptford\i0  concerns the death of this English playwright in a tavern outside London in 1593.\par
\tab Answer:  Christopher \ul\b Marlowe\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Identify these Latin poets for ten points each.\par
[10] This writer of the epic \i Thebaid\i0  was the court poet of the emperor Domitian, and is known for his \i Silvae\i0 , or \i Forests\i0 , which are 32 poems celebrating the emperor and his friends\rquote  lavish villas and gardens.\par
\tab Answer:  Publius Papinius \ul\b Statius\ulnone\par
\b0 [10] This 1\super st\nosupersub -century BC poet wrote of his love for the boy Juventius, but is more famous for the intense and angry verses he wrote to a married woman named Clodia, whom he called Lesbia.\par
\tab Answer:  Gaius Valerius \ul\b Catullus\ulnone\b0\par
[10] This Latin Christian poet born in the mid-fourth century is known for his hymns \i Divinum Mysterium\i0 , or \ldblquote Of the Father\rquote s Love Begotten,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Earth Has Many a Noble City.\rdblquote   He was most famous during the Middle Ages for his \i Psychomachia\i0 , the first allegorical poem in European literature.\par
\tab Answer:  Aurelius Clemens \ul\b Prudentius\ulnone\b0\line\pard\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 Identify the following African authors from works on a 10-5 basis.\par
[10] \i The Blood Knot\i0 , \i The Killing Fields\i0\par
[5] \i "Master Harold"... And the Boys\i0\par
Answer: Athol \ul\b Fugard\ulnone\b0\par
[10] \i The Beggar, The Thief and the Dogs\i0\par
[5] The Cairo Trilogy\par
Answer: Naguib \ul\b Mahfouz\ulnone\b0\par
[10] \i Dance of the Forests\i0 , \i Death and the King's Horsemen\i0\par
[5] \i The Lion and the Jewel\i0\par
Answer: Wole \ul\b Soyinka\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Science\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Given a brief description, give the proper name of the neuronal pathway described, 15PE\par
[15] A long association fibre bundle lateral to the centrum ovale of the cerebral hemisphere, connecting the frontal, occipital, and temporal lobes, it is the pathway along which the Broca\rquote s and Wernicke\rquote s language areas communicate.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Arcuate Fasciculus\ulnone\b0  (accept \ul\b fasciculus longitudinalis superior\ulnone\b0 )\par
[15] Discovered in 1998 in humans, this is the path along which neurons migrate from the sub-ventricular zone, an area of neural stem cell incubation, to the accessory olfactory bulb.\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Rostral Migratory Stream\ulnone\b0  (prompt on \ldblquote RMS\rdblquote )\par
\par
Given a brief description, name the psychotropic drug, FTPE\par
[10] An antipsychotic drug used to treat schizophrenia and manic psychosis, it is alternatively used to control the symptoms of Tourette\rquote s Syndrome.  Also known as Haldol, it is a neuroleptic drug and possesses antiemetic properties.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b haloperidol\ulnone\b0  \par
[10] Also known as benztropine, it is an antiparkinsonian medication in a class of drugs known as antidyskinetics.  It improves muscle control, decreases the stiffness of tremors, and manages side effects of antipsychotic drugs.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b cogentin\ulnone\b0\par
[10] A benzodiazepine and CNS depressant also known as diazepam, it is used in the treatment of anxiety in conditions dominated by tension, excitation, agitation, fear or aggressiveness, such as may occur in psychoneurosis.  It can also be used to treat tremors or spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders and acute alcohol withdrawal.\par
\pard\tab Answer:  \ul\b valium\ulnone\b0  (accept \ldblquote t-quil\rdblquote )\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar You\rquote ve probably heard of alpha, beta and gamma radiation, but FTPE, identify these less well-known types of radiation.\par
A. The blue glow in the water around reactor cores is this, produced by particles traveling faster than the speed of light in a particular non-vacuum medium.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Cerenkov\ulnone\b0  radiation\par
B. Produced by rapid deceleration of a charged particle, as when an electron is deflected passing through the electric field of an atomic nucleus, its name literally means \ldblquote braking radiation\rdblquote  in German.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Bremsstrahlung\ulnone\b0  \par
C. This quantum-mechanically explained radiation is emitted from black holes.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Hawking\ulnone\b0  radiation\par
\par
Liquid-liquid extraction, you know you love it.  Answer the following about that laboratory process, FTPE.\par
[10]  A measure of the efficiency of extraction using two particular solvents is this number, which measures the percentage of material that travels from the original solvent to the one used for the extraction.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b partition coefficient\ulnone\b0\par
[10] The partition coefficient can be calculated thermodynamically as the relative concentrations at which this quantity is equal in both media.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b chemical potential\ulnone\b0  (accept partial Gibbs energy)\par
[10] Putting a two-solvent system allows liquid-liquid extraction to be the basis for a form of this process, in which the less dense solvent, held by centrifugal force, is a stationary phase, while the denser is a mobile phase.  Solutes are then sorted in decreasing order of solubility in the mobile phase.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b chromatography\ulnone\b0  (the process is CPC, Centrifugal Partition Chromatography)\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following related to a paradox of quantum mechanics, FTPE.\par
[10]: This paradox arises from the fact that two entangled particles are described by a single wave equation even after they are separated, and so it is theoretically possible to know the values of two non-commuting observables, violating quantum mechanics.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b E\ulnone\b0 instein-\ul\b P\ulnone\b0 odolsky-\ul\b R\ulnone\b0 osen \ul\b Paradox\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen proposed that quantum mechanics was incomplete and that there were other local properties of the system that would resolve the paradox.  Give the name for these hypothesized undetected properties.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b hidden variables\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: This inequality provides a test for the existence of local hidden variables: if it is ever not satisfied, then no local hidden variable theory was possible.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Bell\rquote s\ulnone\b0  inequality\par
\par
Answer the following about certain subgroups of finite groups, FTPE.\par
[10]: Subgroups of a finite group G of order p\super n\nosupersub , where p is a prime dividing the order of G and p\super n\nosupersub  is the largest power of p dividing the order of G, are called what?\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Sylow\ulnone\b0  subgroups\par
[10]: Sylow\rquote s second theorem states that all Sylow p-subgroups are what?\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b conjugate\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: The number of Sylow p-subgroups of a finite group G is congruent to what mod p?\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b 1\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Music\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify the following suites by Prokofiev, FTPE.\par
[10]: This suite started out as the ballet \i Ala and Lolli\i0 , based on ancient Slavic mythology.  When Diaghilev rejected it, Prokofiev reworked the music into an orchestral suite, which caused a scandal at its 1916 premiere.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Scythian\ulnone\b0  Suite\par
[10]: This suite was made up of music from Prokofiev\rquote s score for a film of the same name, about a soldier who is invented when the Czar misreads a report.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Lieutenant Kije\ulnone\b0  Suite\par
[10]: This suite was written for a play by Alexander Tairov, based on a Pushkin monologue of the same name.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Egyptian Nights\ulnone\b0  Suite \par
\par
Identify the following works with something in common, FTPE, or for five if you need their composers.\par
[10]: Composed while its composer was in self-imposed exile following the Russian Revolution, it was written for piano and orchestra and based on a violin caprice.\par
[5]: Rachmaninoff\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: The title theme, a divertimenti for winds called the \i Chorale St. Antoni\i0 , may have actually been written by a student of the composer it was attributed to.\par
[5]: Brahms\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Variations on a Theme by Haydn\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: This piece based on a popular French song for children was written when its composer was seventeen.\par
[5]: Mozart\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Variations on \ldblquote Ah, vous dirai-je maman\rdblquote\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Variations on \ldblquote Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star\rdblquote\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Theme and Variations, K265\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Art\par
\par
Identify these individuals, all of whom had a hand in the design of Versailles, FTPE.\par
[10] This man's first-rate work on the landscape of Vaux-le Vicomte earned him the respect of Louis XIV, who hired him as the lead landscapist at Versailles.\par
\tab Answer: Andr\'e9 \ul\b Le Notre\ulnone\b0\par
[10] A competent manager as well as a skilled painter, this artist and designer managed or personally produced hundreds of French government commissions.  He was also employed at Vaux-le-Vicomte, and also retained by Louis, to manage the interior decoration\par
\tab Answer: Charles \ul\b Lebrun\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Designer of the Hotel de Lourges and the Hotel de Conti, this man was the royal architect from 1675 onward.  He worked with his pupil Robert de Cotte on the architecture of Versailles.\par
\tab Answer: Jules Hardouin-\ul\b Mansart\par
\ulnone\b0\par
SS\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar FTPE, identify the following theorems from economics.\par
[10] This theorem states that in an efficient capital market lacking tax distortions, the market value of a firm will be independent of the proportions of debt and equity it uses to finance itself.\par
\tab Answer: the \ul\b Modigliani-Miller\ulnone\b0  Capital Structure Irrelevance Theorem\par
[10] This theorem states that in the absence of transactions costs, it is irrelevant from an efficiency standpoint to whom legal entitlements are initially assigned, as long as property rights in those entitlements are clear and can be exchanged.\par
\tab Answer: the \ul\b Coase\ulnone\b0  Theorem\par
[10] This theorem predicts that a country has a comparative advantage in, and will export, goods that are produced with intensive use of a \ldblquote factor\rdblquote  that it has in relative abundance.  Countries with abundant capital will export capital-intensive goods, and countries with abundant labor will export labor-intensive goods.\par
\tab Answer: the \ul\b Heckscher-Ohlin\ulnone\b0 -Vanek Theorem \par
\par
We tend to think of state governments as all being set up essentially the same way, but that\rquote s not entirely true.  For five points per state, identify the state or states that have:\par
[5] A unicameral rather than bicameral legislature.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Nebraska\ulnone\b0\par
[10] A governor whose term in office is only two years rather than four.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Vermont\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b New Hampshire\ulnone\b0\par
[10] A system of awarding electoral votes for President to the winner in each congressional district, rather than giving them all to the statewide winner.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Maine\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Nebraska\ulnone\b0\par
[5] A governor who had no veto power over legislation until 1996.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b N\ulnone\b0 orth \ul\b Carolina\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Geo\ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0\par
FTSNOP, answer the following questions about the odd political geography of several of the independent states that emerged from the former Soviet Union\par
[5] For 5 points, what Baltic portion of Russia is cut off from the rest of the country by Lithuania, Estonia and Belrus?\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Kaliningrad\ulnone\b0  oblast\par
[10]. Azerbaijan is divided into two pieces by another former Soviet republic.  For 5 points each, name that republic and the smaller, western piece of Azerbaijan that it separates from the rest of the country.\par
\tab Answer: Republic of \ul\b Armenia\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Nax\'e7ivan\ulnone\b0  (or Nakichevan) exclave \par
[15]In the Fergana Valley area, three former Soviet republics meet along borders marred by no less than 7 enclaves where a piece of territory belonging to one of the three lies completely within another of them.  For 5 points each, name the three countries.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Kyrgyzstan\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Tajikistan\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Uzbekistan\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 RMP\par
\par
Identify the following about a heresy in the early church, FTPE.\par
[10] This heresy, stating that Jesus had only one person, which was fully divine, was outlawed at the Council of Chalcedon, but it retained many followers in the Coptic Church.  The empress Theodora is alleged to have been a secret holder of this belief.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Monophysitism\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Two notable efforts were made by Heraclius to provide a compromise solution to this question.  They both suggested that Jesus had two persons unified by a single driving force.  Name either FTP.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Monoenergism\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Monothelitism\par
\ulnone\b0 [10] The Monophysite heresy, as well as the Nestorian and Arian ones, was concerned with this particular branch of theology, attempting to understand the nature and divinity of Jesus\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b christology\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following questions about some philosophers, FTPE.\par
[10] The founder of act psychology, this German Catholic priest authored \i Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint\i0 , which borrowed many notions from the Scholastics.\par
\tab Answer: Franz \ul\b Brentano\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Brentano's \i On the Manifold Meaning of Being According to Aristotle\i0  was a major influence on this later German thinker, who codified his thoughts on the subject in his masterwork \i Being and Time\i0\par
\tab Answer: Martin \ul\b Heidegger\ulnone\b0\par
[10] Another influence on Heidegger was this other German, who attempted to reconcile the rival doctrines of rationalism and empiricism with his new doctrine of phenomenology, outlined in his \i Logical Investigations\i0\par
\tab Answer: Edmund \ul\b Husserl\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar FTPE, name these consorts of Norse gods or goddesses:\par
[10] He has two daughters, Hnoss and Gersimi, with the fertility goddess Freya.  He later disappears without a trace, and no reason is given for his departure.\par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Od\ulnone\b0\par
[10] This was the goddess with whom Odin fathered the god, Thor.  She was the daughter of Night and Odin\rquote s first wife.  \par
\tab Answer:  \ul\b Erda\ulnone\b0  (Accept \ul\b Earth\ulnone\b0  and \ul\b Jord\ulnone\b0 )\par
[10] Njord married this Goddess, his sister, and had Frey (Freyr) and Freya.  Once a year, she traveled across the land in a wagon bringing peace and plenty.  When she tired, she returned and was bathed by slaves who were later drowned.\par
\pard\tab Answer:  \ul\b Nerthus\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0 FTPE, all or nothing, given the group in Greek mythology, name its three members.\par
[10] The Fates\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Clotho\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Atropos\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Lachesis\ulnone\b0\par
[10] The Graces\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Aglaia\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Euphrosyne\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Thalia\ulnone\b0\par
[10] The Furies\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Tisiphone\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Megaera\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Alecto\ulnone\b0\par
}
 