{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl
;}{\stylesheet{\s0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs20\kerning28 Normal
;}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margt1440\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\deftab720\pgnstart1
\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0\pard\plain\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28
{\header\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\par}\headery720
{\footer\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\par}\footery864
ACF REGIONALS 2004 TOSSUPS by Arkansas (Joshua Hill)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 This author
\u8217\'92s first male protagonist seeks out one of the title characters, whose 
bioengineering experiments have destroyed mankind, while carrying on an affair with
 the other title character, formerly an Asian prostitute.  Female protagonists by
 this author include Grace Marks in {\i Alias Grace}, Elaine Risley in {\i Cat's
 Eye}, and Iris Chase Griffen in a Booker Prize winner. FTP, name this author of
 {\i Oryx and Crake} and {\i The Blind Assassin}, best known for a novel set in 
the Republic of Gilead.\line\tab Answer: Margaret Eleanor {\ul Atwood} \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 While serving
 as director of the Drury Lane Theatre, he opposed the Peerage Bill in his weekly
, {\i The Plebeian}.  His first play, {\i The Funeral}, was followed by the comedies
 {\i The Tender Husband} and {\i The Lying Lover}, as well as his most important
 play, {\i The Conscious Lovers}.  He is best known for founding a periodical under
 the pseudonym Isaac Bickerstaff, and for cofounding its successor, {\i The Spectator
}.  FTP, name this Englishman and colleague of Joseph Addison.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Richard {\ul Steele}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Containing
 the poem \u8220\'93Vento a tindari,\u8221\'94 this work introduces \u8220\'93poetica
 della parole,\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93poetics of the word,\u8221\'94 which the author
 uses in his subsequent collection {\i Sunken Oboe}.{\fs24  } A three-line poem 
in this collection describes Earth being pierced by a ray of sunlight and would 
lend its name to the author\u8217\'92s most famous work, {\i And Suddenly It Is 
Evening}.  Helping to establish its author as leader of the Hermetic poets, FTP, 
name this 1930 poetry collection, the first by Salvatore Quasimodo.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Acque e terre} or {\i\ul Waters and Lands}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 This book
 foregoes orientation based on plot in lieu of a structure based on the author\u8217
\'92s heart.  Its title comes from a mythical place that the narrator hears of from
 a train passenger.  Written after the author received a \u8220\'93second reprieve
 from death\u8221\'94 after a lung cancer diagnosis was rescinded, it chronicles
 a ten-thousand-mile journey along the Yangtze River in search for the title place
  FTP, name this novel by Gao Xingjian.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Lingshan} or {\i\ul Soul Mountain}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 The freed
 slave Sosias is told of an affair between the son of Simo and the sister of Chrysis
, and the trickster-slave Davos encourages the male protagonist to go along with
 a plot to reveal his infidelity to the object of Charinus\u8217\'92s love, Philumena
    After the female title character has a child by Pamphilus, she is discovered
 to be a freeborn citizen of Attica and the daughter of Chremes.   FTP, name this
 play in which Pamphilus marries Glyceria, the first of the comedies of Terence.
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Andria} or {\i The {\ul Girl from Andros}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Sometimes
 occurring in the cytosol of unicellular diatoms, leaves of plants that use this
 process contain chloroplasts that are not homogeneous, as well as Kranz cells.  
In this process, carbon dioxide is bonded to phosphoenylpyruvate to create oxaloacetate
 and, eventually, malate.  Usually occurring between the mesophyll and sheath bundle
 cells, FTP, name this metabolic pathway preceding the Calvin cycle, which enables
 plants to use trace amounts of carbon dioxide in photosynthesis, enabling them 
to conserve water in arid environments.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul C-4} pathway\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 A derivative
 of this compound is used to reduce carbonyl compounds to alkenes in the Shapiro
 reaction, and the alpha effect causes this chemical to be more reactive than ammonia
 due to its nucleophilicity.  The oxidation of ammonia to chloramine with aqueous
 sodium hypochlorite to create this chemical is called the Raschig process.  This
 hypergolic chemical is still used as a monopropellant for satellite station-keeping
 motors, though it was replaced by UDMH for most rocket fuel purposes.  FTP, name
 this chemical with formula N{\sub 2}H{\sub 4}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul hydrazine} (accept {\ul diamine}; accept {\ul N{\sub 2}H{\sub 4{\ulnone  
}}}before mentioned)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Its namesake
 coefficient in boron carbides exceeds 200 microvolts per Kelvin at room temperature
, and it was little-known until the advent of the semiconductor in electronics.  
It is employed in solar cells, and battery-less wristwatches, such as the Seiko 
Thermic, use this effect, as do thermocouples.  FTP, name this effect which states
 that the joining of two dissimular metals with different temperatures will induce
 an electric current, the reverse of the Peltier effect.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Seebeck} effect\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 The symbol
 for it is sometimes surrounded by a circle to distinguish it from the complex conjugate
 symbol.  Used to find the output of a system in terms of the system\u8217\'92s 
input and its impulse response, it can be computed by simple multiplication of the
 functions\u8217\'92 Fourier or Laplace transforms.  Performed by integrating two
 functions after one of the functions is reversed and time-shifted, FTP, name this
 mathematical operator which represents the amount of correlation between two functions
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul convolution}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Generally
 Population I giant yellow stars, they are characterized by a cycle in which helium
 atoms gain and lose an electron, changing the transparency of their atmosphere.  
Population II stars of this type are called W Virginis.  The existence of the Andromeda
 galaxy was confirmed using these stars, whose relation between period and luminosity
 was discovered by Harlow Shapley and Henrietta Leavitt.  FTP, name these pulsating
 stars which can be used to determine the distance to neighboring objects in space
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Cepheid variable} stars\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 The majority
 opinion of this case references the judicial oath of office, as well as the requirements
 for treason and the ban on bills of attainder.  An alternate solution to this case
 would have been for the courts to grant a writ of mandamus to the plaintiff that
 would force the defendant to deliver the plaintiff\u8217\'92s commission as a justice
 of the peace.  The Supreme Court ruled instead that it should not have the power
 to grant writs of mandamus given to it under the Judiciary Act of 1789 because 
it violated Article III of the Constitution.  FTP, name this case which established
 judicial review.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i William {\ul Marbury} v. James {\ul Madison}} (1803)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 The Wheeler
-Rayburn Act was an indirect result of this organization, whose lesser-known purposes
 include cheap transportation and making low-cost nitrate fertilizer.  It later 
served as the model for similar programs in the Upper Midwest, as well as the Booneville
 and Grand Coulee Dams.  It was sponsored by Senator George Norris, who proposed
 government takeover of facilities at Muscle Shoals, Alabama.   FTP, name this program
 which supplied electric power to its namesake valley.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul T}ennessee {\ul V}alley {\ul A}uthority\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 As a member
 of the Khlisti sect, he practiced a doctrine of salvation that mixed religious 
fervor with sexual indulgence.  His personal magnetism drew him numerous assailants
, including Prince Felix Yussopov and Grand Duke Dmitri, who failed to poison him
 and eventually threw his bullet-riddled body into the Neva River.  FTP, name this
 man whose seemingly miraculous acts allowed him to gain control of Alexandra Feodorovna
 and her husband, Czar Nicholas II.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Grigori Yefimovich {\ul Rasputin}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 It was originally
 composed of two independent kingdoms which were separated by the Tees River.  It
 was united by Aethelfrith of Bernicia, who was later defeated by Edwin of Deira
  Edwin added Scottish and Welsh territory to this kingdom and established its 
superiority in England.  The Danes invaded it in 867 with their victory at York, 
and Canute installed Danish earls, of whom Siward was the last and most powerful
  FTP, name this kingdom of northern England.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Northumbria}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Born circa
 1570, he became a devout Muslim and, after becoming leader of the Kanuri people
, made a pilgrimage to Mecca.  He was similar to the Arabian caliphs in that he 
saw his political role as a mandate to spread Islam across sub-Saharan Africa.  
After receiving firearms from the Ottoman Empire, he invaded and conquered the neighboring
 Bulala, and he set up an empire in the Fezzan area that would last three hundred
 years.  FTP, name this leader who united Kanem and Bornu.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Idris Alooma}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 The chief
 sources of information about them are the {\i Antiquities} of Josephus and two 
books named for them.  Including such leaders as John Hyrcanus and Aristobulus, 
they can be traced to Hashmon and are sometimes called Hasmoneans.  Their rise to
 importance began with the opposition of the Modin priest Mattathias to the rule
 of Antiochus IV, and their most famous leader is Judas, from whom this family takes
 its name.  FTP, name this Jewish clan which began the feast of Hanukkah.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Maccabee}s (accept {\ul Maccabeus}; accept {\ul Hasmoneans} before mentioned
)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 His brother
 agreed to give this man his throne back only if the sun moved backwards in the 
sky.  After becoming king, he learned of his brother\u8217\'92s rendezvous with 
his wife, Aerope, and invited him to a banquet, where he served him his own butchered
 sons.  The brother, Thyestes, placed a curse on his household, and later he was
 killed by his unknowingly adopted son, Aegisthus.  FTP, name this king of Mycenae
, son of Pelops and father of Agamemnon and Menelaus.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Atreus}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Opening with
 Aristotlelian viewpoints to seduce conservative thinkers into following the author
\u8217\'92s rationale, it resembles the {\i Spiritual Exercises} of St. Ignatius
 of Loyola in that it contains the stages of purgation, illumination, and union.  
Its part subtitled \u8220\'93The nature of the human mind, and how it is better 
known than the body\u8221\'94 references Archimedes\u8217\'92 boast that he could
 move the Earth and contains a passage that the author summarizes as \u8220\'93cogito
, ergo sum.\u8221\'94 FTP, name this Descartes work considered the starting point
 of modern Western philosophy.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Meditations on First Philosophy} or {\i\ul Meditationes de Prima Philosophia
}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 The assistant
 and pupil of engraver Hubert Gravelot [GRAV-eh-low], he was influenced by Francis
 Hayman and Anthony van Dyck, and he would often paint landscapes to relieve himself
 of the high society he is best known for depicting.  His works include the fancy
 portrait {\i The Mall}, but he is better known for portraits like {\i Perdita}, 
and {\i Lady Innes}.  For ten points, identify this rival of Joshua Reynolds best
 known for a 1770 portrait of Jonathan Buttrall entitled {\i The Blue Boy}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Thomas {\ul Gainsborough}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 This tone
 poem which premiered in St. Petersburg on April 8, 1880, was commissioned by Tatishcheff
 and Korvin-Kryukouski, who were seeking to assemble music to accompany a \u8220
\'93grand scenic production\u8221\'94 celebrating the silver jubilee of Czar Alexander
 II.  It was to fulfill the assignment portraying a soldier-escorted caravan passing
 through Turkestan, an arid land then on the Russian frontier.  For ten points, 
name this tone poem composed by Aleksandr Borodin.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul In the Steppes of Central Asia} (accept {\i\ul V sredney Azii})\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Among his
 works are the fine arts building at his alma mater, the University of Arkansas, 
and Chicago\u8217\'92s Aon Center, formerly known as the Amoco Building.  He collaborated
 with Philip Goodwin in designing the Museum of Modern Art, and he also designed
 the JFK Center for the Performing Arts.  FTP, name this architect who won renown
 for his design of the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Edward Durell {\ul Stone\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Linked to
 aggression by Stanislav Grof in {\i The Holotropic Mind}, it can be simulated using
 LSD-25.  Sometimes related with adolescents\u8217\'92 reluctance to leave their
 parents, as well as claustrophobia, it is said to be repeated often in life through
 individualization and separation.  FTP, name this concept which cites the central
 cause of psychoneurosis as the pain of the natal experience, developed by Otto 
Rank.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul birth trauma} or {\ul infant trauma} or the {\ul trauma} of {\ul birth\par
}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 A problem
 with this economic theory, say critics, is the choice between multiple economic
 models, which leads to the assumption of perfect clearing of markets.  First introduced
 in 1961 to explain the lack of a successful model to predict speculative market
 prices, this policy was applied to conclude that the government should take a policy
-neutral approach to the economy.  FTP, name this theory which states that government
 economic actions are anticipated by the private sector, advocated by John Muth, 
Thomas Sargent, and Robert Lucas.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul rational expectations}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 In November
 2001, seismological activity was detected to originate from an accident at this
 site, which destroyed sixty percent of the site\u8217\'92s fifty-centimeter photomultiplier
 tubes.   It consists of a fifty-thousand-ton water Cherenkov detector which looks
 for hypothesized muon-to-tau oscillations in a particle after traveling subterraneously
 for 180 miles.  FTP, name this site which recorded its first supernova neutrinos
 in 1987, a Japanese facility also known as Super-K.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Super-Kamiokande}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 This war 
was needlessly fought because the area in question was part of the audiencia of 
Charcas, but its rightful owners neglected the barren plain until oil was discovered
 in the Boreal [bo-ray-ahl] region.  More than 100,000 lives were lost over three
 years, and the treaty that ended it granted one side access to Puerto Casado and
 a river that flows through the namesake region on its way to the Parana.  For ten
 points, name this war fought from 1932 to 1935 between Bolivia and Paraguay.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Gran {\ul Chaco} War\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\line\page
ACF REGIONALS 2004 BONUSES by Arkansas (Joshua Hill)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 FTP each, 
identify the following works from characters.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  Morris
 Townsend, Catherine Sloper.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Washington Square}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Gilbert
 Osmond, Isabel Archer.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i The {\ul Portrait of a Lady}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  For ten
 points, who wrote {\i Washington Square }and {\i The Portrait of a Lady}?  \par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Henry {\ul James}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Given a quote
 from {\i Hamlet}, give the character who spoke it, for five points each, with a
 five-point bonus for all correct.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  "The 
lady doth protest too much."  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Queen {\ul Gertrude} (prompt on {\ul Hamlet\u8217\'92s mother})\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  "Something
 is rotten in the state of Denmark."  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Marcellus\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  "Brevity
 is the soul of wit."  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Polonius}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 d)  \u8220
\'93There\u8217\'92s a divinity that shapes our ends.\u8221\'94  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Hamlet}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 e)  \u8220
\'93Good night, sweet prince, and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!\u8221
\'94  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Horatio\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 FTP each, 
name the following Polish authors.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  He glorified
 the Polish struggle for national identity in his trilogy {\i With Fire and Sword
}, {\i The Deluge}, and {\i Pan Michael}.  His best known historical work, {\i Quo
 Vadis?}, deals with Christianity in the time of Nero.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Henryk {\ul Sienkiewicz}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Author
 of {\i The Comedienne} and {\i The Promised Land}, also wrote {\i The Peasants}
, a prose epic of village life in Poland.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Wladyslaw {\ul Reymont}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  His best
 known works include {\i The Seizure of Power} and {\i The Captive Mind}.  The novel
 {\i The Issa Valley }deals with his childhood in Lithuania.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Czeslaw {\ul Milosz\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 FTP each, 
identify the following similarly titled works.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  This 
work by Carlos Fuentes tells of the death of the title character, a former Mexican
 revolutionary.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i The {\ul Death of Artemio Cruz}} ({\i La Muerte de Artemio Cruz})\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  This 
Pulitzer-winning novel by James Agee is told through the eyes of six-year-old Rufus
; its stage adaptation, {\i All the Way Home}, also won a Pulitzer.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i A {\ul Death in the Family}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
novel by Elizabeth Bowen follows the disillusionment of Portia Quayne, a 16-year
-old London orphan.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i The {\ul Death of the Heart}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Works by 
African authors FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  Meant
 to outline the plight of Nigerians just prior to independence, this work tells 
of Obi Okonkwo, the grandson of the central character in {\i Things Fall Apart}.
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul No Longer at Ease}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  The title
 character of this work is a \u8220\'93beach divine,\u8221\'94 a lower-class preacher
 without a church.  In this play, he rises to lead a local congregation by eliminating
 Amope, which prompts her husband, Chume, to beat the title character\u8217\'92s
 wife.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i The {\ul Trials of Brother Jero}}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
work chronicles young Njoroge, who grows up amidst the Mau Mau war in Kenya.  Unwilling
 to give up school, the hopeful Njoroge is drawn into turmoil, and his hopes are
 shattered.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Weep Not, Child}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Answer the
 following about the small intestine for the stated number of points.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  (5)  
The small intestine are covered by these protrusions.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul villi}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  (10)  
Oppositely analogous to villi, this is the term for the recessions caused by the
 villi.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  intestinal {\ul crypt}s (or {\ul crypt}s of Leverkuhn)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  (15)  
This cell of the intestinal crypt lies between the entero-endocrine cell and the
 goblet cell.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul paneth} cell\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Manufacturing
 processes, FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  In this
 process, which uses three pipes, sulfur is melted with superheated water and forced
 to the surface of the earth.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Frasch} process\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  In this
 process, molten table salt is electrolyzed in the namesake cell to commercially
 produce sodium.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Downs} process\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  An iron
 tank lined with carbon serves as the cathode, and large blocks of carbon serve 
as the anode in this process, which produces molten aluminum at the bottom of the
 tank.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Hall-Heroult} process\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Identify 
the following things from physics FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  It describes
 how many parts a solute will break into when it dissolves.  Used in calculating
 boiling point elevation, it is usually represented as \u8220\'93i.\u8221\'94\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul van\u8217\'92t Hoff} factor\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  The properties
 of graphite come from these weak, long-range, intermolecular attractions between
 the parallel sheets of covalent-bonded carbon present in graphite.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul van der Waals} forces\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  Introduced
 in 1931, this electrostatic particle accelerator produces high voltages by using
 the charge that accumulates from a moving belt inside a hollow metal sphere.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul van de Graaff} generator\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Answer the
 following about a blunder in the space program for ten points each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  This 
space shuttle exploded on January 28, 1986, killing all on board.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Challenger}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  The {
\i Challenger }explosion happened because these devices failed to seal the tang 
and clevis joints of the right solid rocket booster due to hot gas blow-by.  \par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul O-ring}s\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
company was awarded the contract to design and build the solid rocket boosters.  
Executives at this company were pressured to launch by NASA even though it was predicted
 the O-rings would fail.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Morton {\ul Thiokol\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Stuff about
 computer memory 5-5-10-10.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  Used 
to fill the gap between slow and fast devices, this type of short-term memory is
 used to quickly access frequently used data.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul cache}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Packaged
 as single- or dual-in-line memory modules, this type of memory is used for temporary
 data structure.  It can come in static or dynamic types, as well as types such 
as fast page mode.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul random access} memory or {\ul RAM}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
type of architecture, which takes its name from the Mark I machine, uses physically
 separate storage devices for instructions and data.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Harvard} architecture\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 d)  Architectures
 which use the same storage device for instructions and data spend much time moving
 data to and from memory, resulting in this type of bottleneck.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Von Neumann} bottleneck\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Identify 
the following Native Americans FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  In 1883
, she published her autobiography, {\i Life Among the Piutes}.  She traveled the
 country lecturing on conditions in Indian country.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Sarah {\ul Winnemucca}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  In 1969
, this Kiowa became the first Native American to win the Pulitzer Prize for his 
novel, {\i House Made of Dawn}.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Navarre Scott {\ul Momaday}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
member of the Nation of the Kaw served as Vice-President under Herbert Hoover.  
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Charles {\ul Curtis}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Answer these
 questions about the Korean War FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  In the
 early stages of the war, the South Korean forces and allies were pushed back to
 a perimeter surrounding this city on the southeastern tip of the Korean Peninsula
  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Pusan}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  The South
 Korean forces and allies fought back from the Pusan perimeter, led by this American
 supreme commander who was later removed for insubordination.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Douglas {\ul MacArthur}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  President
 Truman replaced Douglas MacArthur with this general as commander in chief.  \par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  James {\ul Bridgway\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 The Algerian
 crisis had its roots in the 1920\u8217\'92s by two groups seeking a form of independence
  FTP each:\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  Name 
the person who led the Star of North Africa movement, which sought total independence
 from France and Muslim control.  He was later abandoned by other liberationists
  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Messali} Hadj\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Name 
the person who originally sought assimilation with France and European-Muslim equality
, but later advocated complete independence.  He became prime minister of the Provisional
 Government of the Algerian Republic.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Ferhat {\ul Abbas}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  Name 
the French prime minister who had to deal with the brunt of the Algerian crisis.  
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Charles {\ul de Gaulle\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 30-20-10 
Give the common place name.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 (30)  It 
is the name of an ancient city, near Enkomi, that was once the principal city of
 Cyprus.  St. Paul visited this city on his first missionary journey, as told in
 Acts 13:5. \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 (20)  It 
is also the ancient name of the island today known as Saronikos Kolpos.  The island
 lies west of Athens in the Saronic Gulf and was occupied by Aegina and Megara as
 well as Athens.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 (10)  The
 island is the namesake of a decisive battle fought in 480 B.C. that effectively
 drove the Persians out of Greece.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Salamis\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Stuff about
 Chinese rebellions FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  After
 winning the favor of Emperor Xuanzong, this general proclaimed himself emperor 
after taking Luoyang in 755 A.D.  The T\u8217\'92ang dynasty was weakened as a result
 of his rebellion.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul An Lushan}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Beginning
 as a tax protest by a society that foresaw the advent of the Buddha, this anti-
Manchu rebellion in the southwest lasted nine years and proved that the Qing military
 was not invincible.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul White Lotus} Rebellion\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
Ming general opened the Great Wall of China to Manchu invaders, leading to the fall
 of the Ming empire, and he was rewarded with the provinces of Yunan and Guizhou
  Faced with losing his land, he led the unsuccessful Revolt of the Three Feudatories
\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Wu Sangui}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Given the
 description of a Hindu caste, name it, for ten points each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  This 
is the highest caste in Hindu sociality and were originally all priests.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul brahmin}s\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  This 
caste, the warrior caste, is just below the Brahmins.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul kshatriya}s\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
caste, composed mainly of peasants, is just above the Untouchables.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul sudra}s\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 This warrior
 defeated Pterelaos and won the hand of Electryon\u8217\'92s daughter, but later
 accidentally killed Electryon.  FTPE,\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  Name 
this king of Thebes, whose form was assumed by Zeus in his absence.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Amphitryon}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Zeus 
seduced this wife of Amphitryon, and she begat Heracles by him.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Alcmene}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  Alcmene
 also begat this twin and half-brother of Heracles by Amphitryon in his real form
 upon his return.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Iphicles}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Identify 
the following philosophers linked to or influenced by existentialism FTP each.\par
}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  Though
 he rejected the association, this author of {\i Being and Time} is generally regarded
 as the founder of existentialism.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Martin {\ul Heidegger}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  This 
French philosopher published numerous articles on existentialism, some collected
 in {\i Dramatic Personages}.  He also wrote the psycho-historical study {\i Love
 in the Western World}.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Denis de {\ul Rougemont}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  Greatly
 influenced by the existentialism of Kierkegaard and by Hasidism, this Jewish philosopher
 evolved his own theology in his book {\i I and Thou}.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Martin {\ul Buber\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Cubism, 5
-5-10-10.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  (5)  
This most famous Cubist painted {\i Guernica} as well as {\i Les Demoiselles d\u8217
\'92Avignon}.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Pablo {\ul Picasso}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  (5)  
This French painter of the {\i Birds} series collaborated with Picasso in developing
 Cubism.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Georges {\ul Braque}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  (10)  
Born Jose Victoriano Gonzalez, this Spanish Cubist painted a famous homage to Picasso
  He also illustrated {\i Le Temoin }and {\i Le Charivari}, as well as designing
 costumes for Diaghilev\u8217\'92s Ballets Russes.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Juan {\ul Gris}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 d)  (10)  
Cubism got its name at the Kahnweiler Gallery after this art critic remarked that
 Braque scorned form and reduced \u8220\'93everything, sites, figures and houses
, to geometric schemas and cubes.\u8221\'94\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Louis {\ul Vauxcelles}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Wagner operas
, FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  The title
 character seeks to win the hand of Elizabeth, daughter of the landgrave of Thuringia
, by singing a pagan song in praise of Venus.  His request for forgiveness causes
 the papal scepter to blossom.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Tannhauser}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Amfortas
 is healed of his wound and Kondwiramur is reunited with her husband, the title 
guileless fool, who is received at the Round Table and becomes king of the Holy 
Grail, in this final Wagner opera.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Parsifal\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  Concerning
 a son of Parsifal, this opera\u8217\'92s title character is the swan-knight rescuer
 of Brabantian princess Elsa.  This opera also features the sorceress Ortrud, as
 well as the Motif of Warning and the Bridal Chorus.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Lohengrin\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\i\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Identify 
the Gershwin musical given songs FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  \u8220
\'93Boy!  What Love Has Done to Me,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Sam and Delilah,\u8221\'94
 \u8220\'93I Got Rhythm.\u8221\'94  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Girl Crazy}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  \u8220
\'93Wintergreen for President,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Posterity Is Just Around the 
Corner,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Trumpeter, Blow Your Horn.\u8221\'94  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Of Thee I Sing}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  \u8220
\'93It Ain\u8217\'92t Necessarily So,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93The Buzzard Song,\u8221
\'94 \u8220\'93Summertime.\u8221\'94  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Porgy and Bess\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\i\ul\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 FTP each, 
given a work of history and the time it was authored, name the historian who authored
 it.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  {\i An
 Ecclesiastical History of the English People}, circa 700.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Saint (The Venerable) {\ul Bede} (Baeda)\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  {\i A
 History of the United States}, 1834-1874.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  George {\ul Bancroft}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  {\i The
 History of Rome}, 1854-1856.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Theodor {\ul Mommsen}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 African rivers
, FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  This 
river\u8217\'92s headwaters are in the Drakensberg Mountains in Lesotho, and it 
empties into the Atlantic Ocean on the border of Namibia and South Africa.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Orange} River\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  Rising
 in northern Cameroon, this river flows about nine hundred miles south and west 
across Nigeria.  It is the chief tributary of the Niger.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Benue} River\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  This 
river flows seven hundred miles along the Democratic Republic of the Congo border
 before emptying into the Congo near Mbandaka.  It is the anagram of a national 
capital which lies on its banks.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Ubangi} River{\ul\par}}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Answer the
 following about Aristophanes\u8217\'92s {\i The Birds} FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  Name 
the land that {\i The Birds} is set in.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Nephelococcygia} (accept {\ul Cloud-Cuckoo-Land})\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  After
 raping his wife\u8217\'92s sister and cutting out her tongue, this son of Ares 
unknowingly ate his son that his wife, Procne, fed him.  He was transformed into
 a hoopoe and his wife into a swallow.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Tereus}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  The two
 main characters in {\i The Birds} are companions who search for Tereus the hoopoe
  Name either for ten points.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\ul Euelpides} and {\ul Pithetaerus}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 Answer the
 following about the first expedition to circumnavigate the glove FTP each.\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 a)  This 
explorer led the expedition for most of the way before being killed in 1521 and 
is usually given credit for the first circumnavigation.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Ferdinand {\ul Magellan}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 b)  After
 Magellan was killed in the Philippines, this navigator led the expedition back 
to Spain.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  Juan Sebastian del {\ul Cano}\par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28 c)  Juan 
Sebastian del Cano returned to Spain with only 18 men aboard this ship.  The {\i
Concepcion} and {\i Trinidad} did not complete the trip.  \par}

\pard\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\sl240\slmult1{\f0\lang1033\fs20\kerning28\tab Answer
:  {\i\ul Victoria}}}