{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset161{\*\fname Times New Roman;}Times New Roman Greek;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\sl240\slmult1\kerning28\f0\fs24 History\par
\par
Their southward migration brought them into conflict with Boer settlers in a conflict known as the Kaffir Wars.  Eventually outflanked by the Great Trek, their territory was annexed under the names Transkei and Ciskei.  Although apartheid disrupted traditional life, many still herd cattle for a living.  FTP, identify this South African ethnic group, best known for their click language.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b Xhosa\ulnone\b0  \par
\par
In 1134, Alfonso the Warrior attempted to will this kingdom to the Templars and Hospitalers, but no one took him seriously. Its kings were vested by the Pope with the title \ldblquote King of Sardinia\rdblquote  in 1320\rquote s, part of its expansion in the Mediterranean which included the acquisition of Sicily in 1282. It was established as an independent kingdom in 1135 by Ramiro I, the son of the King of Navarre, and in 1137 it was united with Barcelona and Catalonia. FTP, name this kingdom, which united with Castile to form modern Spain.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b Aragon\ulnone\b0\line\line Succeeding Ignacio Comonfort to become president, while in exile from Santa Anna\rquote s government between 1853 and 1855, he lived in New Orleans, but returned when Santa Anna was overthrown for the final time. Born to impoverished Zapotec parents, he earned a law degree and was governor of his native state of Oaxaca between 1847 and 1852, he is most noted for curtailing the power of the Catholic church and leading the resistance to the French-supported emperor Maximilian. FTP, name this president of Mexico from 1861 to 1863 and 1867 and 1872.\line Answer:\tab Benito \ul\b Juarez\ulnone\b0\line\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sl240\slmult1\tx2520 It was revoked by Louis XI 23 years after its promulgation, but it was periodically reasserted, and it exerted a profound influence on church authority and the progress of the Reformation.  Reaffirmed in part by the Concordat of Bologna, it was based on the decisions of the Council of Basel.  It claimed certain liberties for the Gallican Church, and asserted the supremacy of councils over the Pope.  FTP, identify this document, issued in 1438 by French King Charles VII.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sl240\slmult1 Answer:\tab\ul\b Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges\par
\ulnone\b0\par
The attack was supposed to be led by a group of black soldiers led by Edward Ferrero, but commanders didn\rquote t want to be accused of using them as sacrificial lambs in case of failure.  It began at 4:45 AM, 75 minutes late, and soon after James Leidle\rquote s division charged.  A Confederate counterattack killed the helpless Union soldiers in, for 10 points, what July 1864 battle that featured a big hole?\par
Answer:\tab Battle of the \ul\b Crater\ulnone\b0\par
\par
RMP\par
\par
In 1750 he became a teacher in the house of a silk factory owner.  It is said that the Marquis d\rquote Argins wrote a letter to Frederick the Great asking that he be allowed to live in Berlin; he was eventually given the status of \ldblquote Jew under extraordinary protection.\rdblquote   He wrote a modern Biblical commentary in Hebrew, the \ldblquote Be\rquote ur,\rdblquote  and his namesake \ldblquote Bible\rdblquote  is a German translation of the Talmud.  Noted for claiming that the Torah was a set of absolute commandments, this is, for 10 points, what Jewish philosopher who wrote \ldblquote Jerusalem\rdblquote  and was the model for G.E. Lessing\rquote s \ldblquote Nathan the Wise\rdblquote ?\par
Answer:\tab Moses \ul\b Mendelssohn\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Shortly after moving to the University of Jena, he produced a series of lectures, \i The Vocation of the Scholar\i0 , which outlined his beliefs about the science of knowledge.  He reacted to Kant and extended his philosophy, following his emphasis on pure reason.  In 1799, he moved to Berlin, where he wrote \i The Way Toward the Blessed Life\i0 .  FTP, identify this German philosopher, best known for his \i Attempt at a Critique of All Revelation\i0 .\par
Answer:\tab Johann Gottlieb \ul\b Fichte\ulnone\b0\par
\par
After the Trojan War, he settled in Apulia, and refused Aeneas military aid when Aeneas arrived in Italy. Some authors implicate him, with Odysseus, in the murder of Palamedes at Troy, though it is generally agreed that he murdered the Thracian king Rhesus with Odysseus. Modern scholars believe he originally may have a been local war god, which might explain why he wounds Aphrodite and Ares in the \i Iliad.\i0  FTP, name this Greek hero who married King Adrastus\rquote s daughter Deipyle to become King of Argos.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b Diomedes\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Science\par
\par
When mitochondria are damaged, this is released into the body of a cell, and its release from a cell is often indicative of apoptosis.  Some molecules that perform analogous functions use azurin or ferredoxin, but its prosthetic group consists of a heme group with an iron ion inside.  Attaching electrons to oxygen molecules before they are combined with hydrogen, this is, for 10 points, what molecule found near the end of the electron transport chain?\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b cytochrome c\ulnone\b0  oxidase\par
\par
Its value is proportional to the Madelung constant, which is related to the crystal structure.  Higher values tend to reflect lower solubilities, smaller radii, and higher charges.  Directly immeasurable, this quantity, represented by U, can be calculated by an indirect process that uses Hess\rquote s Law.  FTP, identify this thermodynamic quantity, measured by the Born-Haber cycle, which is the amount of energy required to separate a crystal into its constituent gaseous ions.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b lattice energy\ulnone\b0\par
\par
The linear version of this effect occurs only in the n>1 states of the hydrogen atom, owing to the degeneracy of the 2p and 2s states in a pure Coulomb potential.  The ground state of the hydrogen atom exhibits the quadratic version of this effect, as do alkali metal atoms because they approximate a one-electron atom.  FTP, identify this analogue of the Zeeman Effect, in which applied electric fields cause spectral lines to split.\par
Answer: \ul\b Stark\ulnone\b0  effect\par
\par
This type of mineral is found in sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic rock.  A group of hydrous potassium, aluminum silicate minerals, there are 28 varieties, including glauconite, which, unlike the other varieties, usually appears as pelletlike grains.  More common varieties include biotite and muscovite.  FTP, identify these minerals most widely known for exhibiting perfect cleavage into flexible sheets.\par
Answer: \ul\b mica\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Fine Arts\par
Though not noted as a composer, she won second place at the 1908 Prix de Rome with her cantata \ldblquote La Sirene\rdblquote , but ceased composing after the death of her sister Lili.  As a conductor, she was the first woman to conduct the Boston, New York Philharmonic, and Philadelphia orchestras, and promoted early French music.  FTP, identify this woman, best known as the teacher of Darius Milhaud, Virgil Thomson, and Aaron Copland.\par
Answer: Nadia \ul\b Boulanger\ulnone\b0\par
\par
The deaths of many of his family members when he was young had a profound influence on his works.  His painting \ldblquote The Sick Child\rdblquote  depicts his eldest sister, who died of tuberculosis.  Isolation and loneliness are constantly present in his works, especially in the 22 paintings making up the \ldblquote Frieze of Life\rdblquote , in which even those depicting love convey a hint of death.  FTP, identify this artist who most poignantly expressed feelings about anxiety, isolation, and death in \ldblquote The Scream\rdblquote .\par
Answer: Edvard \ul\b Munch\ulnone\b0\par
\par
In 1874, this composer became totally deaf, possibly as a result of having contracted syphilis, and this is referred to in his 1\super st\nosupersub  String Quartet \ldblquote From My Life.\rdblquote   However, many of his best works were written in the years leading up to his death in an asylum in 1884, including cycle of symphonic poems containing such pieces as \i Tabor\i0 , \i Visehrad\i0 , and \i The Moldau\i0 , collectively known as\i  Ma\i0  \i Vlast\i0  or \i My Fatherland\i0 .  For ten points, name this first important Bohemian nationalist composer, best known for his opera \i The Bartered Bride\i0 \par
Answer: Bedrich \ul\b Smetana\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Lit\par
Her \i Collected Poems\i0  that she published four years before her death left out many poems and cut many more down to a fraction of their original length. Born in Saint Louis in 1887 and a graduate of Bryn Mawr, collections of her poems include \i Like a Bulwark\i0  and \i The Arctic Ox\i0 . Her poems display her insistence on lexical precision as well as her interests in the zoo and the Brooklyn Dodgers. FTP, name this American poet, associated with the imagists and author of \i The Pangolin and Other Verse \i0 and \i O, To be a Dragon\i0 . \line Answer:\tab Marianne \ul\b Moore\par
\ulnone\b0\par
He wrote the libretto to Purcell\rquote s opera \i King Arthur\i0 , and plays of his include 1675\rquote s \i Aurung-Zebe\i0 , a musical adaptation of Milton\rquote s \i Paradise Lost\i0 , \i Marriage a la Mode\i0 , and an adaptation of Shakespeare\rquote s \i Antony and Cleopatra\i0  entitled \i All for Love\i0 .   Other major works include his 1697 translation of Virgil, the allegory \i The Hind and the Panther\i0 , and the satire \i Absalom and Achitophel\i0 .  FTP name this English writer, who in 1668 became the first official poet laureate of England.\par
Answer:  John \ul\b Dryden\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Composed of over 21,000 lines of octosyllabic couplets, it was partially translated into Middle English by Geoffrey Chaucer, and it is based upon Ovid\rquote s \i Ars Amatoria\i0 .  Begun by Guillaume du Lorris around 1230 and finished by Jean de Meun, it begins with the character Lover being led into a garden by Idleness, who introduces him to such characters as Pleasure and Riches.  Cupid does not allow him to touch a certain flower in the garden, saying he must suffer first, and then Lover is tormented by Danger, Shame, and Slander, among others.  FTP, name this medieval French poem of courtly love.\par
Answer: \i The \ul\b Romance of the Rose\ulnone\b0\i0  or \ul\b\i Roman du Rose\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
It begins by noting that one of the titular concepts is often used only in phrases of censure, and that it is \ldblquote vaguely approbative\rdblquote  otherwise.  The third and final section begins with a line of Greek, claims that few people know when significant emotions are expressed, and judges that diverting attention from poets to poetry is a \ldblquote laudable aim.\rdblquote   Earlier comes the famous claim that no artist of any art has his complete meaning alone, and the analysis of the quote that \ldblquote The dead writers are remote from us because we know so much more than they did.\rdblquote   For 10 points, name this seminal piece of literary criticism, written by T.S. Eliot.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b Tradition and the Individual Talent\par
\ulnone\b0\par
The action occurs in part because the mahout is twelve hours away, and in part because of the death of a cow, the destruction of a bamboo hut, and the raiding of a fruit stand. The narrator comments that he was hated by large numbers of people, because it was the only time in his life he was important enough to be hated; later he says that his life was one long struggle not to be laughed at, which is why he commits the title deed, \ldblquote solely to avoid looking a fool.\rdblquote   For 10 points, name this essay set in Moulmein and written by George Orwell.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b Shooting an Elephant\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Social Science\par
As long as it is renewed every ten years, one can remain protected indefinitely.  They can be registered federally under the Lanham Act, passed pursuant to Congress\rquote s commerce power, so long as there is actual use in commerce, bona fide intent to use followed sufficiently soon thereafter by actual use, or foreign registration.  They can be arbitrary, suggestive, or descriptive, but are not protected if they have become generic.  FTP, what are these words, phrases or symbols used to designate a particular brand?\par
ANSWER: \ul\b trademark\ulnone\b0 s\par
\par
A 1975 constitutional crisis resulted from its bicameral parliamentary system, in which the Government is formed in the House of Representatives but the Senate can block supply, and from the fact that it is not a republic.  After the Senate rejected Prime Minister Gough [GOFF] Whitlam\rquote s budget, Whitlam was dismissed by the Queen\rquote s representative, Governor-General John Kerr.  FTP, what federation of 6 states and 2 territories, now led by Prime Minister John Howard, is the world\rquote s 6th-largest country and smallest continent?\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Australia\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Misc\par
Filch learns the hard way that without the permission of Jonathan Jeremiah Peachum, no one may work as a beggar in London.  Both Peachum\rquote s daughter Polly and Lucy, the daughter of police chief Tiger Brown,  are seduced by the crime-boss villain of the piece, who is eventually betrayed to the police by yet another woman in his life, the prostitute Jenny.  In the end, a last-minute Royal pardon saves the villain, Macheath, better known as Mac the Knife.  FTP, this describes what 1928 takeoff on John Gay\rquote s 1728 \ul Beggar\rquote s Opera\ulnone , with lyrics by Bertolt Brecht?\par
ANSWER: The \ul\b Three-Penny Opera\ulnone\b0  (or Die Dreigroschenoper).  [Do not accept even an early Beggar\rquote s Opera, as the plot does not match even the first clue.]\par
\par
Most occur in areas of silica-rich rhyolite.  The temperature deep within one must be high enough to dissolve the silica, so that silicaceous sinter can be formed to seal the upper portions.  Because of a constriction near the surface or merely because of a great weight of water, the water in one then behaves essentially as if in a pressure cooker.  When the water at the top of the \ldblquote pipe\rdblquote  boils, this reduces the pressure on the superheated water at the bottom, which \ldblquote flashes\rdblquote  to the surface in the eruption of, FTP, what geological phenomenon common in Yellowstone?\par
ANSWER: a \ul\b geyser\ulnone\b0\par
\par
RMP\par
Answer the following about a group of Christian relics FTPE.\par
[10]\tab Tradition has that there were four nails that held Christ to the cross, and when this mother of Constantine found them, one of them was turned into a bridle for her son\rquote s horse.\par
Answer:  St. \ul\b Helena\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab In his \i Book of the Glories of the Martyrs\i0 , this 6\super th\nosupersub -century author more famous for his \i History of the Franks\i0  wrote that one of the nails was thrown into the Adriatic to calm a terrible storm.\par
Answer:  St. \ul\b Gregory of Tours\ulnone\par
\b0 [10]\tab Another of the nails of Christ\rquote s cross was supposedly made into a crown for Constantine, and is located now at Monza, and is known as the \ldblquote Iron Crown\rdblquote  of this region, and it was long a symbol of the Holy Roman Emperors.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Lombardy\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Given a list of murdered individuals, identify the mythical hero who killed them all, FTSNOP.\par
[5]\tab Periphetes, Sinis, Sciron, and Procrustes\par
Answer:\tab\b\tab\ul Theseus\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab Regen, Fafnir\par
Answer:\tab\tab\ul\b Siegfried\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Sigurd\ulnone\b0\par
[15]\tab\par
\par
Identify the following Chinese philosophers, all of whose names end with \ldblquote zi.\rdblquote  In the proper Chinese form, at least. (Note: the \lquote i\rquote  should pronounced approximately as a schwa sound. The \lquote z\rquote  should have a slight \lquote t\rquote  sound in front of it. For all of the \ldblquote zi\rdblquote  parts, \ldblquote tzu\rdblquote  is just barely acceptable.)\line [10]\tab The most famous follower of Confucianism, he believed that kings derived their power from heaven and should use it for the good of their people.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b Mengzi\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Mencius\ulnone\b0\line [10]\tab Along with Laozi, he is the most important Daoist philosopher. One of the more famous stories involving him is when he awoke from dreaming he was a butterfly and could tell if he was a man who had dreamt of being a butterfly, or a butterfly who was dreaming of being a man.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b Zhuangzi\ulnone\b0  \line [10]\tab Probably beginning as a student of Confucius, this man\rquote s philosophy\rquote s central creed was universal love, or jian\rquote ai. \line Answer:\tab\ul\b Mozi\ulnone\b0\line\par
\par
History\par
\par
Answer the following about the Moroccan Crises, FTPE\par
[10]\tab The First Moroccan Crisis was precipitated when the Kaiser pronounced his support for complete Moroccan independence from France.  The dispute was resolved at this conference, attended by the US, Britain and France.\par
Answer:\tab\tab\ul\b Algeciras\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab The Second Moroccan Crisis occurred when the German gunboat Panther sailed into this city, ostensibly to protect German interests during a native revolt.\par
Answer:\tab\tab\ul\b Agadir\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab Give the year of either the Algeciras Conference or the Agadir Incident.\par
Answer:\tab\tab\ul\b 1906\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b 1911\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Identify the following people associated with the Tang dynasty, FTSNOP.\line [10]\tab Considered the greatest of the Tang emperors, this man, who reigned from 626 to 649, was the second Tang emperor and is often credited with being the real driving force behind the foundation of the dynasty.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b Taizong\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b Li Shimin\ulnone\b0\line [5]\tab This woman, who reigned from 690 to 705, is the only woman to have reigned in her own right throughout the entirety of imperial Chinese history.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b Wu\ulnone\b0  Zetian \ul\b Wu\ulnone\b0  Zhao\line [5]\tab This man, whose name is derived from Sogdian, started a rebellion that lasted from 755 to 763 which marked a watershed in the history of the Tang.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b An Lushan\ulnone\b0\line [10]\tab This emperor, who reigned from 712 to 756, is credited with restoring order and prosperity after the disruption caused by the fallout from Empress Wu, but also provoked the An Lushan rebellion at the end of his reign.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b Xuanzong\ulnone\b0  (pron: (approx.) Shooenzung or Li Longji)\line\line Identify the following battleships at Pearl Harbor that are not the \i Arizona\i0 , FTPE.\line [10]\tab Along with the \i Arizona\i0 , this battleship was the only one not eventually returned to service. Note: the \i Utah\i0  does not count, as it was a target ship at the time.\line Answer:\tab U.S.S. \ul\b\i Oklahoma\ulnone\b0\i0  (Prompt on the number 37)\line [10]\tab The sister ship of the \i Oklahoma\i0 , it was the only battleship to actually get underway, but was attacked and beached to prevent it from blocking the entrance to Pearl.\line Answer:\tab U.S.S. \ul\b\i Nevada\ulnone\b0\i0  (Prompt on the number 36)\line [10]\tab The sister ship of the \i Arizona\i0 , it was the flagship of the Pacific Fleet. Lying in drydock at the time of the attack it was the least damaged of the American battleships at Pearl.\line Answer:\tab U.S.S. \ul\b\i Pennsylvania\ulnone\b0\i0  (Prompt on the number 38)\line\par
After losing his hand in a grenade explosion at Labisso in 1677 during the Sicilian Wars, he wore an iron hand that was covered by a glove.  Answer the following about an Italian-born French explorer for ten points each.\par
[10]\tab Identify this man who helped in the construction of Fort Crevecoeur, where modern-day Peoria stands, the son of Lorenzo, a Neapolitan financier who developed an eponymous life insurance plan.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-720\li720\sl240\slmult1 Answer: Henri de \ul\b Tonti\ulnone\b0  or Henri de \ul\b Tonty\ulnone\b0  (the life insurance plan is known as a \ldblquote tontine\rdblquote )\par
[10]\tab Tonti served as the chief lieutenant of this French explorer who searched for the mouth of the Mississippi and named the area he explored \ldblquote Louisiana\rdblquote  in honor of Louis XIV.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\sl240\slmult1 Answer: Rene-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de \ul\b La Salle\ulnone\par
\b0 [10]\tab Under orders from La Salle, Tonty supervised the construction of this vessel, the first European ship to sail on the Upper Great Lakes.\par
Answer:  the \ul\b Griffon\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following about the first, and perhaps best, fascist dictator in Europe FTPE.\par
[10]\tab Before Mussolini was kicked out of the Socialist party for being in favor of WWI, he was the popular editor of this official Socialist newspaper of Italy.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Avanti\ulnone\b0 !\par
[10]\tab Mussolini in 1919 organized groups into what he called \ldblquote Squadri d\rquote Azione\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Action Squads,\rdblquote  which were known for wearing this certain article of clothing.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Black shirts \ulnone\b0 or \ul\b Camicie Nere\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab On Halloween in 1922, at the age of 39, Mussolini was appointed by this king of Italy to become his nation\rquote s youngest prime minister ever.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Victor Emmanuel III\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Science\par
Identify the following about coordination compounds, FTPE\par
[10]\tab The geometric orientation of ligands in an octahedral complex breaks the degenerate d orbitals  into 2 groups.  This theory explains the cause of this splitting and its consequences for electronic structure.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b crystal field\ulnone\b0  theory (accept: \ul\b ligand field\ulnone\b0  theory)\par
[10]\tab Different ligands can be organized into this sequence, which is ordered by the degree of separation the create between the 2 levels of d orbitals.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b spectrochemical\ulnone\b0  series\par
[10]\tab At the top of the spectrochemical series is this neutral two-atom gaseous compound, which produces an exceptionally large gap between the d orbitals. \par
Answer:\tab\ul\b CO\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b carbon monoxide\ulnone\b0  or \ul\b carbonyl\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Identify the following about an experiment, for the stated number of points.\par
[15]\tab For 15 points:  Probably the only revolutionary experiment that involved a blender, this 1952 project involved the adding of bactriophages to two different radioactive cultures.\par
Answer:\tab (Alfred) \ul\b Hershey\ulnone\b0  and (Martha) \ul\b Chase\ulnone\b0  experiment\par
[15]\tab 5 for one, 15 for both, name the two elements that were radioactively tagged and used to differentiate between protein and DNA.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b sulfur\ulnone\b0  and \ul\b phosphorous\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Answer the following related questions FTPE\par
[10]\tab The rules of this simulation are simple.  Every occupied cell with fewer than two or more than three occupied neighbors becomes unoccupied.  Every unoccupied cell with exactly three neighbors becomes occupied.  Iterated these rules dozens of times, and complex patterns emerge.  Name this simulation, FTP.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b The Game of Life\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab This Cambridge mathematician devised the Game of Life\par
Answer:\tab John \ul\b Conway\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab The Game of Life is an example of this kind of array, which evolves according to definite rules.\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b cellular automaton\par
\ulnone\b0\par
Identify the following functions with Greek letter names that are not the zeta function FTPE.\par
[10]: This function extends the factorial to complex arguments.  At integers n, it assumes the value (n-1)!.\par
Answer: \ul\b gamma\ulnone\b0  function\par
[10]: This function gives the number of positive integers less than and relatively prime to a positive integer n.\par
Answer: Euler \ul\b phi\ulnone\b0  function\par
[10]: This function, denoted mu(n) for positive integers n, returns 0 if n is divisible by a square, 1 if n=1, and (-1)^k if n is the product of k distinct primes.\par
Answer: \ul\b Mobius\ulnone\b0  function\par
\par
Identify the following concepts from electrodynamics, FTPE.\par
[10]: The magnetic field is the curl of this quantity: gauge transformations are often done with the goal of picking a value for its divergence.\par
Answer: \ul\b vector potential\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: In this gauge, the divergence of the vector potential is 0.\par
Answer: \ul\b Coulomb\ulnone\b0  gauge\par
[10]: In the Lorentz gauge, this differential operator acts on both the vector and scalar potentials: it is denoted by a box squared and equals del squared minus \f1\'ec\sub\f0 0\nosupersub  times \f1\'e5\sub\f0 0\nosupersub  times the second derivative with respect to time.\par
Answer: \ul\b d\rquote Alembertian\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Fine Arts\par
Identify the following people who were married to Alma Schindler, FTPE.\par
[10]: Her first husband, who dedicated his Symphony No. 8 to her.\par
Answer: Gustav \ul\b Mahler\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: Her second husband, an architect who designed the Harvard University Graduate Center and the US Embassy in Athens.\par
Answer: Walter \ul\b Gropius\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: Her third husband, a writer whose novel \ul The Song of Bernadette\ulnone  was adopted into a movie that won four Oscars.\par
Answer: Franz \ul\b Werfel\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Identify the following works of romantic nationalism FSNOP.\par
[5]: This Sibelius tone poem is one of the best known such works.\par
Answer: \ul\b Finlandia\ulnone\b0\par
[10]: This tone poem of Aleksandr Borodin, written for the 25th anniversary of \line Czar Alexander II's ascension to the throne, includes folk tunes from all \line parts of the Russian Empire.\line Answer: In the Steppes of Central Asia\line [15]: One of the first of Bartok\rquote s compositions, this tone poem in the style of Strauss portrayed the life of the man who led the 1848-49 Hungarian revolution.\par
Answer: \ul\b Kossuth\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following concerning the architectural achievements of the emperor Hadrian for ten points each.\par
[10]\tab This brick, cylindrical structure on the Tiber built between AD 135 and 139, originally intended to be a mausoleum to Hadrian and his successors, was later converted to a fortified palace by the popes, and was used as a fortress and prison until 1870.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Castel Sant\rquote Angelo\ulnone  (Prompt on Hadrian\rquote s Mausoleum or equivalents)\b0\par
[10]\tab At the behest of the Athenians, Hadrian brought about the completion of this temple located at the foot of the Acropolis, begun five centuries earlier and noted for its Corinthian columns.  It, like everything in Athens, is now in ruins.\par
Answer:  Temple of the \ul\b Olympian Zeus\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab An amateur architect, Hadrian\rquote s greatest achievement in this field was probably his design of his villa in this city just outside Rome.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Tivoli\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Lit\par
Given clues about where it is set, identify the Shakespearean play, FPTE.\line [10]\tab This play starts in Sicily but also features the rather anomalous Bohemian seacoast.\line Answer:\tab The \ul\b\i Winter\rquote s Tale\ulnone\b0\i0\line [10]\tab This is the only one of Shakespeare\rquote s plays set in contemporary rural England.\line Answer:\tab The \ul\b\i Merry Wives of Windsor\ulnone\b0\i0\line [10]\tab This play contains one scene set in the England of Edward the Confessor.\line Answer:\tab\ul\b\i Macbeth\ulnone\b0\i0\line\par
Give the ballsy titles of these unrelated literary works for ten points each.\par
[10]\tab This 1886 William Morris work is a vision that takes the author back to Wat Tyler\rquote s Peasants\rquote  Revolt of 1386, and involves a discussion of the 19\super th\nosupersub  century with the titular rebellious priest.\par
Answer:  A \ul\b Dream of John Ball\ulnone\par
\b0 [10]\tab This Guy du Maupassant short story involves a heroic French prostitute, the title character, who originally refuses to sleep with a Prussian army officer on principle, but then she finally gives in to allow the group in which she is traveling to continue its journey.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Ball of Fat\b0  \ulnone or \ul\b Boule de Suif\par
\ulnone\b0 [10]\tab In this 1981 Alan Bleasdale work, the action is set in an English vasectomy clinic and involves three patients waiting to get snipped.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Having a Ball\ulnone\par
\ul\par
\ulnone\b0 For the stated number of points, answer the following concerning a certain novel.\par
[15]\tab For 15, this 1936 novel chronicles the career of Anthony Beavis and his friends, and Beavis eventually turns to mysticism and pacifism thanks to his anthropologist mentor James Miller.\par
Answer:  \ul\b Eyeless in Gaza\b0\par
\ulnone [5]\tab For five points, this English author wrote \i Eyeless in Gaza\i0 .\par
Answer:  Aldous \ul\b Huxley\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab For ten, the title \ldblquote Eyeless in Gaza\rdblquote  comes from this Milton poem that includes the line \ldblquote Eyeless in Gaza at the mill with the slaves.\rdblquote\par
Answer:  \ul\b Samson Agonistes\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 Identify the following African authors from work on a 10-5 basis\par
[10]\tab Petals of Blood, Devil on the Cross\par
[5]\tab A Grain of Wheat\par
Answer:\tab\ul\b Ngugi wa Thiong\rquote o\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab Arrow of God, A Man of the People\par
[5]\tab Things Fall Apart\par
Answer:\tab Chinua \ul\b Achebe\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab To the Mountain, Too Late the Phalarope\par
[5]\tab Cry the Beloved Country\par
Answer:\tab Alan \ul\b Paton\ulnone\b0\par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\ldblquote Because nobody \i ever\i0  suspects the butterfly!\rdblquote   Answer these questions involving butterflies in literature FTPE.\par
[10]\tab This play, a strange sort of parallel with a Puccini opera, written by David Henry Hwang involves a French diplomat who has a 20-year affair with a Chinese opera singer, without realizing that she is really a man.\par
Answer:  \ul\b M. Butterfly\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab In 1920 while a student in Madrid Federico Garcia Lorca wrote this play, his first.  Its characters are all insects and it tells of Sylvia\rquote s love for the poet Boybeetle, who loves the title character who has been hurt and fallen into the land of land bugs.  For some reason, the play flopped.\par
Answer:  \b The \ul Butterfly\rquote s Evil Spell\ulnone\b0  or \b El \ul maleficio de la mariposa\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab This author of \i The Real Life of Sebastian Knight\i0  and \i Invitation to a Beheading\i0  was easily the literary world\rquote s foremost lepidopterist, holding a position at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard.\par
Answer:  \b Vladimir \ul Nabokov\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Social Science\par
FTPE, identify the following quantities from economics.\par
[10]\tab This measure of inequality can be obtained by dividing the area between the line of perfect equality and the Lorenz curve by the area below the Lorenz curve.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Gini coefficient\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab This measure of the level of systematic risk in an investment is equal to the regression coefficient of the value of the investment with the value of the overall market.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b beta\ulnone\b0\par
[10]\tab This ratio is the market value of a firm or an overall economy divided by the replacement value of the assets of that firm or economy.\par
ANSWER: Tobin\rquote s \ul\b Q\ulnone\b0  [q] ratio\par
\par
Very few islands are divided between more than one country (counting only countries recognized by more than one other nation).  For 5 points each, name the six largest.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b New Guinea\ulnone\b0  (accept Papua Island, but not Papua New Guinea), \ul\b Borneo\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Ireland\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Hispaniola\ulnone\b0 , Grande de \ul\b Tierra del Fuego\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Timor\ulnone\b0 .\par
[Note that Cyprus is only seventh in size, and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is recognized only by Turkey.]\par
\par
Misc\par
FTPE, identify the following nutritional deficiencies from their symptoms.   You\rquote ll get five points for naming the condition and another five for identifying the deficient nutrient.\par
[10]\tab This deficiency causes calcium to be lost from the bones in adults or inadequately deposited there in children, weakening the bones and leading to bowlegs, pain, and easy fractures.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b rickets\ulnone\b0  [in children] or \ul\b osteomalacia\ulnone\b0  [in adults]; \ul\b Vitamin D\ulnone\b0  deficiency\par
[10]\tab In addition to stunting childhood growth, this deficiency leads to lethargy, a grossly swollen abdomen, muscular atrophy, and reddish discoloration of hair and skin.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b kwashiorkor\ulnone\b0 ; \ul\b protein\ulnone\b0  deficiency\par
[10]\tab Often resulting from a diet too heavily reliant on corn, this deficiency causes scaly skin sores, diarrhea, and dementia.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b pellagra\ulnone\b0 ; \ul\b niacin\ulnone\b0  (or nicotinic acid) deficiency.\par
\par
For five points each, identify the following subatomic particles as a lepton, meson, baryon, boson, or none of the above.\par
[5]\tab Pion\par
ANSWER: \ul\b meson\ulnone\b0\par
[5]\tab Gluon\par
ANSWER: \ul\b boson\par
\ulnone\b0 [5]\tab Electron\par
ANSWER: \ul\b lepton\ulnone\par
\b0 [5]\tab Neutrino\par
ANSWER: \ul\b lepton\ulnone\b0\par
[5]\tab Proton\par
ANSWER: \ul\b baryon\ulnone\b0\par
[5]\tab Muon\par
ANSWER: \ul\b lepton\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\kerning0\f2\fs20\par
}
 