{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\f4 \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s2 \ql \sl240 \f22 \sbasedon222 \snext2 Default;}{\*\cs3 \additive \ql \sl240 \f4 \fs18 \snext3 Default SS;}{\s4 \qc \sl240 \fs28 \b \sbasedon2 \snext4 Header;}{\s5 \ql \sl240 \sbasedon2 \snext5 Body;}{\s6 \qc \sl240 \i \sbasedon2 \snext6 Footer;}{\s7 \ql \sl240 \fs20 \sbasedon2 \snext7 Footnote;}{\*\cs8 \additive \ql \sl240 \up6 \snext8 Footnote Index;}}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1440 {\headerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\headerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 ACF Nationals 1998\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Questions by the University of Kentucky \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Tossups\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  The gods wander the earth to find a truly good person.  When the only person who will offer them food and lodging is a prostitute, they reward her with a thousand silver dollars.  She then opens up a tobacco shop, adopting the identity of her male cous}{\f22 in Shui Ta when she finds everyone taking advantage of her.  This is the plot - FTP - of which Bertold Brecht play whose title refers to the prostitute Shen Te?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _The Good Woman of Szechuan_ (accept also _The Good Person of Szechuan_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 or _The Good Lady of Szechuan_ or _Der Gute Mensch von Sezuan_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. He drafted the Olive Branch Petition of 1775 and resigned from the Continental Congress in protest when it passed the Declaration of Independence.  He governed both Pennsylvania and Delaware and helped Delaware become the first state to ratify the Const}{\f22 itution.  FTP, name this author of _Letters of a Pennsylvania Farmer_ and drafter of the Articles of Confederation.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: John _Dickinson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. He was said to be a brilliant teacher of botany but left behind no writings in that field, so it is as an anatomist that we remember this pupil of Vesalius instead, thanks to his influential textbook _Observations anatomicae_.  He did important work on }{\f22 the nerves of the brain and the ear and named the cochlea (COCK-lee-a), palate, and placenta.  FTP, identify this man who is now the namesake of the tubes which connect the ovaries to the uterus.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Gabriel _Fallopius_ (accept Gabrielo Fallopia, Fallopio; DO NOT accept Fallopian)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. King Oeneus forgot to mention the goddess Artemis in his annual harvest sacrifices.  As punishment, Artemis sent this monster to ravage Oeneus' kingdom, which Oeneus' son fought with the help of an all-star team of hunters that included Jason, Castor, P}{\f22 ollux, and Theseus.  FTP, name this mythical beast ultimately killed by Meleager, who awarded the trophy to Atalanta with tragic results.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: the _Calydonian Boar_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5. He set his first novel, _Lie Down in Darkness_, in his birthplace of the Virginia Tidewater.  His Marine duty inspired his second book, _The Long March_. His 1990 book _ Darkness Visible_ described his personal battle with depression.  FTP, name this Am}{\f22 erican author whose other works include _Set This House on Fire_, the Pulitzer-winning _The Confessions of Nat Turner_, and _Sophie's Choice_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: William _Styron_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 6.  He founded Rome's Temple to Concord, which was built near the end of his\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 career to celebrate the end of the Sexto-Licinian war.  This conqueror of the city of Veii and five-time dictator was honored as a "Second Romulus" for rebuilding Rome after it was sacked by the Gauls in 390 BC.  FTP, name this general whose conquest of th}{\f22 e Etruscans began Rome's territorial expansion. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Marcus Furius _Camillus_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 7.  Within two years after first being apprenticed to a surgeon and apothecary, he had switched his focus to chemistry and did extensive early work on the\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 effects of nitrous oxide.  He was knighted for his work on fertilizers and later invented a safety lamp for miners. FTP, name this British discoverer of sodium, barium, magnesium, calcium, and Michael Faraday.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: Sir Humphrey _Davy_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 8. Its name is a corruption of the Andalusian town of Jerez (HAIR-ez). Shakespeare refers to this nutty-tasting beverage as "sack" in several plays.  It comes in two types: oloroso (o-la-RO-so), the heavier variety, and aperitif (a-pair-a-TEEF), such as th}{\f22 e famous Amontillado (a-mon-tee-YAH-do). FTP, name this fortified wine which shares its name with a song by Steve Perry.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Sherry_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 9.  He founded an unsuccessful magazine called _Rolling Stone_, worked as a cartoonist for the Houston Post, and was sent to prison after embezzling funds from an Austin bank.  After his release, he moved to New York and wrote his first book of short stori}{\f22 es there, called _The Four Million_.  FTP, name\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 this prolific author of "The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: O. _Henry_ (accept William Sydney Porter)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10.  Legend has it that residents of this Nottinghamshire town once kept King John from visiting by pretending to be complete idiots.   And soon after they tried to drown an eel and tried to trap a cuckoo by joining hands in a circle, the town became widel}{\f22 y known for its intelligent stupidity.  FTP, identify this place name that was used by Washington Irving to describe New York City and that is also the hometown of Bruce Wayne.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Gotham_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 11.  It begins with a setting of "Veni, creator spiritus," a medieval poem\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 attributed to the Archbishop of Mainz (MINES).  As if to illustrate the link between Christian mysticism and nineteenth-century Romanticism, the second part takes as its text the final scene of Goethe's _Faust_.  FTP, identify this first fully choral symph}{\f22 ony by Gustav Mahler whose nickname refers to the number of people needed to perform it.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Symphony of a Thousand_ or Symphony #8\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 12.  Its members ruled Romania as late as 1947, many years after the Swabian castle was built from which this family takes its name.  The Franconian branch of the family at one time controlled Nuremburg and Brandenburg. FTP, name this dynasty whose members}{\f22  included Frederick the Great of Prussia and which vacated the throne of Germany with the abdication of Kaiser Wilhelm II.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Hohenzollern_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 13.  Its name is often applied to such North American plants as the mayapple or Jimson Weed, but it's actually a member of the family Solanaceae commonly found\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 around the Mediterranean and the Himalayas. Its short stem bears opiate flowers, its corolla is purple and bell-shaped, and its fleshy root is often forked, making it look like a human body. FTP, name this toxic plant long in demand as a poison, a narcotic}{\f22 , and an aphrodisiac.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _mandrake_ or _mandragora_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 14.  He was threshing wheat in a wine press when an angel told him he would drive the enemy from Manasseh. On the angel's order, he first destroyed an altar of the god Baal and was thus given the nickname "Jerub-baal", or "Let Baal contend against him."  F}{\f22 TP, name this Hebrew judge who destroyed the Midianites with just three hundred men and is now the namesake of a group that probably left a Bible in your hotel room.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Gideon_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15.  His autobiography _In The Mill_ describes his experiences working in an American carpet factory.  He wrote the adventure novels _Basilissa_ and _Sard Harker_ and the dramas _The Tragedy of Nan_ and _The Tragedy of Pompey the Great_ but is best known f}{\f22 or such poems as _The Everlasting Mercy_, _Reynard\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 the Fox_, and _Salt-Water Ballads_, which contains his most famous poem "Sea Fever."  FTP, who served from 1930 to 1967 as England's Poet Laureate? \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: John _Masefield_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 16. General Sherman stalled there on May 25, 1864 after a series of maneuvers designed to force the Confederate Army back to Atlanta.  Sherman then did what he had avoided doing for weeks, ordering a frontal assault in which he lost nearly eight times as m}{\f22 any men as the Confederates even though he was outnumbering them eight to one.  FTP, name this Civil War battle won by Johnston which later yielded the name of major league baseball's first commissioner.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Kenesaw Mountain_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 17.  He invented a color-TV picture tube, advocated neutron beams to treat cancer, and isolated neptunium and plutonium.  In 1929, he suggested the device that made him famous and later perfected it after a graduate student showed that it could actually be}{\f22  built.  FTP, name this Berkeley professor who won a Nobel Prize in 1939 for inventing the cyclotron.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: Ernest O. _Lawrence_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 18.  It was deserted after 1194 until American Edward Thompson bought the entire site and began excavating it.   Founded around AD 500 near the ground wells from which the city gets its name, it was apparently conquered in the 10th century after its El Cas}{\f22 tillo temple to Quetzalcoatl and its Temple of the Warriors were built.  FTP, name this site of the greatest ancient city of the Yucatan.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Chichen Itza_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 19.  His career began with an influential expedition to Baffin Island and ended\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 some sixty years later on the other side of Canada, where he died while studying the links between the native populations of Siberia and the Pacific Northwest.  One of the first scholars to describe societies by their own rather than by European standards,}{\f22  he pioneered the use of oral histories, and his students included Ruth Benedict and Zora Neale Hurston.  FTP, name this author of _The\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Mind of Primitive Man_ who helped found cultural anthropology.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Franz _Boas_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 20.  Its first phase, the Parlement, ended with minor concessions from the crown.  Its second phase, the Princes' War, ended when the Vicomte de Turenne defeated the Prince of Conde, which allowed the royalists to recapture Paris in 1652.  FTP, identify th}{\f22 is revolt against the policies of Cardinal Mazarin and Anne of Austria during the childhood of Louis XIV, whose name is taken from a type of children's slingshot.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: the _Fronde_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 21.  After serving in the German Army Medical Corps, he became an assistant at\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Robert Koch's Institute of Hygiene in 1889.  While there, he and the Japanese bacteriologist Shibasaburo showed that it was possible to provide an animal with passive immunity against tetanus by injecting it with the blood serum of an infected animal.  FTP}{\f22 , name this man whose antitoxin for diphtheria won him the first Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1901.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Emil Adolf von _Behring_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 22.  He received training from a portrait painter named Stein and spent two years at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts before painting landscapes that earned him the patronage of John Trumbull.  His works include landscapes like _The Ox-Bow_, classical}{\f22 ly-themed works like _The Architects Dream_, and religious works like _The Expulsion of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden_.  FTP, name this painter and leading figure of the Hudson River School.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: Thomas _Cole_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 23.  Margaret suspects her husband of an affair with the mysterious Mrs. Erlynne, whom he financially supports though he claims his interest is honorable.  When he invites Mrs. Erlynne to a dinner party over Margaret's objections, she decides to leave him }{\f22 for Lord Darlington but is dissuaded by Mrs. Erlynne herself, who is actually her mother.  This is the plot - FTP - of which Oscar Wilde play named for an object that Margaret suspects Mrs. Erlynne of stealing?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Lady Windermere's Fan_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 24. It is about 110 miles long by 80 miles wide and is split into four longitudinal zones.  The western Highveld contains its highest peak Mount Emlembe, while the Middleveld and Lowveld are in the center and the Lubombo escarpment lies to the east.  It is}{\f22  watered by the Lomati, Usutu, Mkhondvo, and Komati rivers and has its traditional royal capital at Lobamba.  FTP, name this tiny monarchy wedged between Mozambique and South Africa whose administrative capital is Mbabane. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Swaziland_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 ACF Nationals 1998\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Questions by the University of Kentucky \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Bonus Questions\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  I'll give the number of a Beethoven piano sonata.  You'll receive 10 points for giving its nickname, or 5 if you need another clue.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: Opus 13, Sonata Number 8 in C Minor\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: It is French for "moving" and was also used by Tchaikovsky for his Symphony Number 6 in C Minor.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Pathetique_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: Opus 53, Sonata Number 21 in C\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: This sonata was named for a generous patron and friend of Beethoven.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Waldstein_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: Opus 106, Sonata Number 29 in B Flat\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: It is simply the word "piano" in German. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Hammerklavier_ \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Reverend Samuel Dickinson Burchard was just supposed to welcome the Republican presidential candidate in 1884, but he may have cost the Republicans the election with his remarks. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five points each, name the three one-word principles that Burchard claimed the Democratic Party stood for, all of which begin with the letter "R." \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Rum_, _Romanism_, and _Rebellion_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  For 10 points, name the Republican candidate from Maine who failed to immediately disavow Burchard's remarks and may have cost himself the election by allowing the Democrats to exploit the issue among Catholic voters.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: James G. _Blaine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  For five points, who defeated Blaine in the 1884 election?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Grover _Cleveland_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  Identify the literary figure, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 30 pts: He wrote _The History of The Thirty Years War_ as well as the long poems _The Artists_ and _the Gods of Greece-.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 20 pts: He is more famous for such plays as _The Maid of Orleans_, _Mary Stuart_, and _Don Carlos_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: He is most famous for the plays _Wallenstein_ and _William Tell_ and for the poem "Ode to Joy".\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Johann Christoph Friedrich von _Schiller_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4.  During the Middle Ages, trade with Europe and the Middle East enabled many African states to grow into powerful empires.  Name these African empires for 10 points each: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  Rising to power on the gold trade, this empire flourished between the seventh and thirteenth centuries.  It eventually encompassed much of what is today Mali and Mauritania before its destruction by the Almovirads.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Ghana_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Also known as Kangaba, this empire supplanted Ghana under the leadership of such kings as Sandiata and Marsa Musa and eventually controlled Timbuktu and Gao, based on its monopoly of gold and alluvial salt.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Mali_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  This southern empire rose to power in the 14th century due to its monopoly of the ivory, copper, and slave trades.  At its height, it had a coastline of 150 miles along the river for which it was named, but loss of friendly relations with Portugal led }{\f22 to its dissolution in the 1660s.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Kongo_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5. For 10 points each, name these analgesics and cold medicines with which the long cold winter has thoroughly familiarized the author of this packet:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  This drug is a metabolite of phenactin also known as para-hydroxyacetanalide and has the molecular formula C8H9O2N. It relieves pain by raising the body's overall pain threshold and reduces fever by tinkering with the brain's temperature regulator, but}{\f22  overdoses can cause permanent liver damage.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _acetaminophen_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  This drug is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory which relieves pain by inhibiting prostaglandin secretion and is the active ingredient in Nuprin and Advil.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _ibuprofen_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  Also known as methylmorphine, this alkaloid of opium is converted by the enzyme CYP2D6 into morphine in the body.  Its side effects are similar to narcotics, and it is totally ineffective in some 10 percent of Caucasians and Chinese.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _codeine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 6.  Identify these people associated with everyone's favorite serial killer from Greek mythology, Orestes: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  Orestes not only killed his mother Clytemnestra but is said to have killed at least three others, including -- FFP - which man who was technically his cousin and definitely his mother's lover? \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Aegisthus_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Orestes is also supposed to have murdered - FFP - which of his aunts for\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 causing the whole mess to begin in the first place?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Helen_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  FTP, name the daughter of Helen and Menelaus who married Orestes even though by killing his mother and aunt, he'd also killed her mother and aunt.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Hermione_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4.  FTP, name the son of Achilles who was also eventually murdered for unwisely carrying Hermione off after she'd been promised to Orestes. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Neoptolemus_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 7.  For ten points each, identify these literary Czechs that we've "cached" in this bonus:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  This most important member of the "May School" which flourished in the 1860s and 70s wrote _Tales of the Little Quarter_ and the poetry collections _Cemetery Flowers_, _Books of Verses_, and _Cosmic Songs_.  His surname was later\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 adopted as a pseudonym by a noted Latin American poet.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Jan Neruda_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  This satirist used his service in the Austrian and Soviet armies to inspire \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 his most famous character, an "ingenious idiot" named Schweik.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Jaroslav _Hasek_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  Exiled from Czechoslovakia by the communists in 1975, he wrote his most famous works in France, including _The Book of Laughter and Forgetting_ and _The Unbearable Lightness of Being_. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Milan _Kundera_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 8.  Identify these Presidential diseases: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: This viral disease comes in paralytic, respiratory, and bulbar forms and afflicted Franklin Roosevelt.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Polio_ (accept poliomyelitis)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: Also known as Adrenal Cortical Insufficiency, this disease is caused by progressive atrophy of the cortex of the adrenal glands and afflicted John Kennedy.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Addison's_ Disease\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15 pts: Abraham Lincoln is thought to have had this rare hereditary disorder also known as Arachnodactyly, which tends to cause dislocated eye lenses and make sufferers taller than usual. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Marfan's_ Syndrome\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 9.  Identify these European island groups from some of their islands on a 10-5 basis: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: Simi, Tilos, Karpathos\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: Rhodes\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Dodecanese_ \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: Formentera, Ibiza\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: Majorca, Minorca\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Balearic_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: Canna, Eigg, Coll, Muck\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: Skye\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Inner _Hebrides_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10.  Name these artists who worked with woodcuts:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: This Norwegian impressionist transferred many of his most famous works on canvas to wood, including his best-known work, _The Scream_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Edvard _Munch\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: This German artist's woodcuts include _Melancholia_ and his _Apocalypse_  series.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Albrecht _Durer_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15 pts: This French artist painted religious and historical themes but is better-known for his woodcut illustrations of the Bible, Balzac's _Droll Stories_, and Dante's _Inferno_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Gustave _Dore_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 11.  Identify the American authors of these works: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: _The Triumph of the Egg_ and _Winesburg, Ohio_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Sherwood Anderson_ (need 1st initial)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts:  _Winterset_ and _Key Largo_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Maxwell Anderson_ (need 1st initial)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15 pts: _Silent Night, Lonely Night_ and _I Never Sang for My Father_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Robert Anderson_ (need 1st initial)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 12.  Answer these questions about the rediscovery of Troy:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  FFP, name the German merchant and amateur archeologist who discovered and excavated the ruins of Troy.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Heinrich _Schliemann_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  FTP if exact and five points within five years, in what year did Schliemann announce his discovery?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _1871_ (5 pts for 1866-1876)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  FFP, name the legendary capital of Agamemnon where Schliemann began excavations after finishing with Troy. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Mycenae_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4.  FTP, name the city that Schliemann also unearthed in 1884 that was located in the ridge between Nauplia and Mycenae, famous for its walls supposedly built by the Cyclopes, legendary birthplace of Perseus, and destroyed in 486 BC. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Tiryns_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 13. Carl Jung noted the presence of certain symbols and images in the dreams of even his uneducated patients, which led him to conclude that some symbols and images are common in the unconscious of all people. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  FFP, give the name Jung used to refer to these totems found in the\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 collective unconscious.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _archetypes_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  FFP each, name the three archetypes Jung concentrated on which help define the personality and are common to both sexes.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _persona_; _shadow_; _self_;\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  FFP each, give both the male and female names of the gender-based fourth archetype Jung studied. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer:  _animus_ and _anima_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 14.  Answer these questions about the scientist Emilio Segre: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 points:  Name the man-made chemical element with atomic number 43 that Segre created in 1936 at the university of Palermo by bombarding molybdenum with deuterons.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Technetium_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 points: Name the element with atomic number 85 and the heaviest of the Group VII-A halogens, which Segre synthesized at Berkeley by bombarding bismuth with accelerated alpha particles. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Astatine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 points: Segre was awarded the Nobel Prize in physics in 1959 for his discovery of what antiparticle?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _antiproton_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 points: Segre shared the prize with what American scientist with whom he discovered the antiproton and, later, the antineutron?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Owen _Chamberlain_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15.  For ten points each, identify these works of gothic fiction:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  Manfred, a creepy aristocrat, terrorizes Isabella so that she might produce an heir for his line to retain control of the kingdom his grandfather usurped, but she is saved by the peasant named Theodore and by the ghost of his grandfather, who is the ri}{\f22 ghtful ruler of the realm.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _The Castle of Otranto_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Emily de St. Aubert suffers by her aunt's marriage to Montoni and is practically a captive in his castle in the Apennines.  But at the death of her aunt, she discovers the secret of her birth and returns to the Provence to marry her lover de Valencourt}{\f22 .\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _The Mysteries of Udolfo_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  Ambrosio is corrupted by lust for the demon Matilda.  When he is condemned to death by the Inquisition, he bargains with the devil for release.  But when he makes a sigh of repentance, the devil dashes him to pieces on rocks. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _The Monk_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 16. Raguel, Sariel, and Jerahmeel are three of the seven traditional Judeo-Christian archangels.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five points each, name the other four.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Michael_, _Gabriel_, Raphael_, _Uriel_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Islamic tradition recognizes Michael and Gabriel as Archangels but replaces Raphael and Uriel with - FFP each - which Angel of Death and which Angel of Faith?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Azrael_, _Izrafel_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 17.  Identify these mathematical figures for 15 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  Its Cartesian equation is (x squared + y squared)squared = a squared times (x squared - y squared).  It is actually a special case of a Cassinian oval, though this was unknown to Jakob Bernoulli, who described it in a 1694 article in Acta Eruditorum an}{\f22 d gave it a name from the Latin for "pendant ribbon".\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Bernoulli's _Lemniscate_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Its Cartesian equations are  x = a times t and y = a/(1+ [t squared]).  It lies between y = 0 and y = a, with a point of inflection at y = 3a/4 and an asymptote at y = 0.  It was studied by Fermat and Grandi before it was best described by the Italian }{\f22 mathematicienne who gave it its name, confusing an old Italian word for "free to move" with a word that had a more supernatural connotation.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Witch of Agnesi_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 18.  In 1791, a force of American soldiers on a punitive expedition against the Miami Indians were overtaken by a surprise attack on the banks of the Wabash river and suffered 600 casualties. For 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  Name the general and veteran of many Revolutionary War campaigns that led the ambushed party. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Arthur _St. Clair_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Name the Miami chief who defeated St. Clair just as he had defeated Josiah Harmar the previous year. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Little Turtle_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  Little Turtle was finally defeated in 1794 by General "Mad" Anthony Wayne at which battle?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Fallen Timbers_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 19. Henry of Huntingdon's 1154 _History of Britain_ referred to the Saxon kingdoms in pre-William-the-Conqueror days as the "Heptarchy".  For five points apiece, name any six of the Heptarchy's seven member kingdoms. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Kent_, _Wessex_, Essex_, _Sussex_, _East Anglia_, Mercia_,\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 _Northumbria_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 20. Identify these philosophers:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: He authored _Nausea_ and _Being and Nothingness_, for which he won a Nobel Prize in 1964.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Jean-Paul _Sartre_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10 pts: He is noted for his faith in direct intuition for gaining knowledge and for his theory of the elan vital.  He also won a Nobel Prize in 1927 for such works as _Creative Evolution_, _Laughter_, and _Time and Free Will_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Henri _Bergson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15 pts: This leading logical positivist and pupil of Carnap and Whitehead wrote "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" and _Word and Object_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Willard _Quine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 21.  Name the Dutch painters of these works for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  "Laughing Girl", "Girl with a Red Hat", "The Artist in His Studio"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Jan _Vermeer_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  "The Anatomy Lesson of Doctor Tulp", "The Blinding of Samson", "Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Rembrandt_ van Rijn\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  "Seven Deadly Sins", "Temptation of Saint Anthony", "Garden of Earthly Delights"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Hieronymus _Bosch_\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}}