{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\f4 \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s2 \ql \sl240 \f22 \sbasedon222 \snext2 Default;}{\*\cs3 \additive \ql \sl240 \f4 \fs18 \snext3 Default SS;}{\s4 \qc \sl240 \fs28 \b \sbasedon2 \snext4 Header;}{\s5 \ql \sl240 \sbasedon2 \snext5 Body;}{\s6 \qc \sl240 \i \sbasedon2 \snext6 Footer;}{\s7 \ql \sl240 \fs20 \sbasedon2 \snext7 Footnote;}{\*\cs8 \additive \ql \sl240 \up6 \snext8 Footnote Index;}}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1440 {\headerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\headerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 ACF Nationals 1998\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Questions by Maryland B\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Tossups\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  The Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel, and Tin Workers went on strike.  Five days later, Pinkerton agents attempted to enter the plant by boat, and gunfire broke out.  Violence then raged for three more days, ending only after the Pennsylvania nat}{\f22 ional guard seized control of the plant.  FTP, name this event that helped swing the 1892 presidential election to Grover Cleveland, the worst strike in the history of the Carnegie Steel company.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Homestead_ Strike\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Philomel and Lil talk about the absent Albert as the barman calls out, "HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME."  Madame Sosostris, famous clairvoyant, gives a tarot reading.  Mr. Eugenides, the unshaven\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Smyrna merchant, invites the narrator to lunch.  Sweeny has a tryst in a boat with Mrs. Porter, and Phlebas the Phoenician, who was once as handsome and tall as you, experiences Death by Water.  FTP, these are among the characters of what 1922 poem?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: The _Waste Land_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  One legend says that she threw herself into the Hellespont rather than face slavery.  Another legend says that she was transformed into a dog, while a third says that she was executed by the Greeks for murdering the King of the Chersonese.  A minor cha}{\f22 racter in the Iliad, she is the subject of a Euripides tragedy  which tells of her revenge against Polymestor for the death of her son Polydorus.  FTP, name this wife of Priam and Queen of Troy.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Hecuba_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. Its name was coined soon after the composer's death by the scholar Philipp Spitta.  While the sixth was actually the first to be composed, the fifth with its extended organ cadenza and the third with its strings-only takeoff on Vivaldi have become the m}{\f22 ost widely performed today.  FTP, name this group of concerti dedicated to the Margrave Christian Ludwig and named for a German state ruled by the Margrave's father, which was written by J.S. Bach.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Brandenburg Concertos_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5. The chapter entitled "The Pilgrims" deals with slavery and religion, but its central theme has more to do with technology and its misuse.  It describes the introduction of the toothbrush, bicycles, factories, and firearms, and it concludes with the Batt}{\f22 le of the Sand Belt, in which electric fences annihilate a legion of\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 armored knights.  FTP name this novel in which a time-travelling Hank Morgan brings uncertain progress to the British dark ages. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 6. Found in all mammals except cetacea and edentata, its function is to secrete a substance that prevents sperm cells from sticking together during ejaculation.  A cone-shaped object about 3/4 of an inch in length, it lies next to the bladder and is transv}{\f22 ersed by the urethra.  FTP, name this male reproductive organ, which is also the site of the most frequently-occurring cancer among men.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: the _prostate_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 7. Its only area of flat land is a narrow strip along the southern border known as the Duars Plain.  None of its rivers are navigable, and all flow into the Brahmaputra to the south.  Its mountains generally increase in elevation to the north, rising to a }{\f22 maximum height of 24,784 feet at Kula Kangri, on the Chinese border.  FTP, identify this tiny monarchy headed by Jingme Singye Wangchuk, with an administrative center at Paro and its capital at Thimphu.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Bhutan_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 8. She became president of the American Genetics Society in 1945, but was not widely acknowledged until her 1992 death.  In fact, her research with the "corn group" at Cornell was largely neglected until the discovery of transposons in 1992 highlighted her}{\f22  discovery of the crossing over of chromosomes during meiosis.  FTP, name this geneticist, who in 1983 became the first woman to receive an unshared Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Barbara _McClintock_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 9. Except for a two-year stint at the royal court in Madrid, he spent his entire career working in Seville.  His earliest known work is _Immaculate Conception_, and other notable paintings are his Saint Peter Nolasco series, _Still Life with Oranges_, and }{\f22 _The Apotheosis of Saint Thomas Aquinas_.  FTP, who was this Baroque painter of saints and churchmen, whose greatest claim to fame may be that he is usually found last in a dictionary of artists?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Francisco de _Zurbaran_  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10.  Named for a fortress in Thuringia, it was led by Philip the Magnamanious of Hesse and John Frederick of Saxony.  Its power peaked in 1544, when the emperor was forced to grant it a form of official recognition, but it collapsed three years later when }{\f22 its army was smashed by imperial troops at the battle of Muehlburg.  FTP, name this short-lived German alliance, which was designed to defend Protestant interests against Emperor Charles V.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Schmalkaldic League_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 11. The classic example of it is the murder of Kitty Genovese, who was stabbed to death just outside her New York home.  Thirty-eight neighbors heard her screaming, but not one called the police until after she was dead.  Later, Bibb Latane and John Darley}{\f22  suggested this principle as an explanation for that strange behavior.  FTP, name this effect, which says that there is a decreased likelihood that an individual will rescue a person if others are present.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _bystander effect_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 12.  He stopped writing poetry in 1868, believing that it interfered with his duties as a priest.  But, encouraged by Church authorities, he resumed in 1875 with a poem about the drowning of several nuns at the mouth of the Thames, and in subsequent poems-}{\f22 - most of which were published posthumously-- he explored his relationship to God.  FTP, name this poet of "Pied Beauty," "Felix Randal," "The Windhover," and "The Wreck of the Deutschland."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Gerard Manley _Hopkins_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 13. Headed by a patriarch who resides in Iraq, this 175,000-member sect rejects the Council of Ephesus, along with its dogma that Mary was the mother of God.  Instead, they draw a distinction between the divine and human in Jesus, leading its critics to ac}{\f22 cuse them of believing that Christ was two distinct persons.  FTP, identify this religious sect, also known as the Assyrian church, which is named for an anathemized Archbishop of Constantinople.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  the _Nestorians_ (accept Assyrians on an early buzz)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 14. While working in Russia, he proposed the "Petersburg Game," now recognized as one of the earliest problems in game theory.  His discoveries relating probability to calculus led to prizes from the French Academy, most notably for his major work, _Hydrod}{\f22 ynamica_.  FTP, name this member of a famous mathematical family, whose principle related pressure to the velocity and energy of a moving fluid. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Daniel Bernoulli_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15. He proposed a fourteen-point plan for a united India in 1929, but when this was rejected by Gandhi and Nehru, he resigned from the Congress Party, declared a "day of deliverance" for his supporters, and thereafter became a firm advocate of partition.  }{\f22 He died of tuberculosis in 1948, just one year after becoming Governor-General of his newly-independent country.  FTP, name this longtime leader\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 of India's Muslim League, the founding father of Pakistan.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Muhammad Ali _Jinnah_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 16. The sample is first subjected to electrophoresis on SDS-polyacrylamide gel before being released onto a polymer sheet.  By adding a radioactively-labeled antibody specific for the target protein, one can screen a large number of bacterial colonies for }{\f22 cDNA clones to facilitate the manufacturing of that protein.  FTP,\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 name this method of determining very small amounts of protein in tissues or cells, the companion of Northern and Southern.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Western blotting_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 17.  Strife among noblemen, the alliance between Guillaume d'Orange and Louis the Pious, and struggles against the Moors were popular subjects of these epics, while common themes included chivalry and\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 courtly love.  They survive in manuscripts dating from the 11th to 15th centuries, and each of the near eighty in existence is thousands of lines long.  FTP, name these medieval French "songs of\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 great deeds," the most famous of which is the _Song of  Roland_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Chansons_ de Geste  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 18. Thought to have had the highest IQ of any British monarch, by the time she was a teenager she could speak fluently in Latin, Hebrew, Greek, Arabic, and even Chaldean.  In spite of these accomplishments, her fate was sealed by the unsuccessful Wyat rebe}{\f22 llion, which finally convinced her captors that she was too\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 dangerous to live.  FTP, name this woman beheaded on February 12, 1554, who had been Queen of England for just nine days.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Lady Jane _Grey_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 19. A native of Hoboken, New Jersey, his first scientific paper was titled "What Do Birds Do When It Rains?" He went on to a career as a professor of zoology at Indiana beginning in 1920, and later started his most famous research establishment as founder-}{\f22 director of the Institute for Sex Research.  FTP, name this man who, according to his critics, may have exaggerated the population of homosexuals by 500% in his _Sexual Behavior in the Human Male_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Alfred _Kinsey_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 20. When the old building burned down in a fire in 1834, a bitter debate raged over whether its replacement should be built in the Renaissance or Gothic style.  The result was a compromise: the job of designing its general shape went to Sir Charles Barry, }{\f22 an expert on the Renaissance, while the decoration of the facade went to A.W.N. Pugin, a leading adherent of the Gothic revival.  FTP, name this London landmark, which includes the Big Ben clock tower.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Houses of _Parliament_ or _Westminster Palace_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 21. It began in 1952 after a long buildup of resentment of white rule, caused primarily by the appropriation of land.  Tired of having its grievances ignored, the African community gradually moved toward outbreaks of violence.  In October the British decla}{\f22 red a state of emergency and deployed troops to stamp out the\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 rebellion.  FTP, what uprising led to the arrest of Jomo Kenyatta and the internment of 80,000 Kikuyu in detention camps?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Mau Mau_ Rebellion\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 22. In 1647, he was deprived of his position as Dean Prior of Devonshire because of his Royalist sympathies, but was reinstated after the restoration.  Influenced by classical Roman poetry, many\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 of his works were set to music, such as "Delight in Disorder," while his chief work, _Hesperides_, included a group of 1200  religious poems, "His Noble Numbers."  FTP, name this Cavalier poet who wrote the line, "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may." \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Robert _Herrick_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 23. In 1750 he became tutor to the children of a silk merchant in Berlin, subsequently becoming the merchant's partner.  He was the model for the title character in Gotthold Lessing's _Nathan the Wise_, while his treatise "Phaedon" earned him the nickname }{\f22 "the German Socrates."  For ten points, identify this philosopher and Jewish activist who translated the Torah into German, the grandfather of composer Felix.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Moses Mendelssohn_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 24. It marks a significant change from uniform composition of material to a denser state of matter.  Readings have been obtained showing that shock wave transmissions will increase from 4.3 miles\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 per second to 4.8 miles per second at this boundary, which averages 19 miles deep.  FTP, name this section of the earth's lithosphere,  which forms the junction between the crust and mantle, and which is\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 named for a Yugoslav geophysicist. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Mohorovicic_ (or Moho) discontinuity\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22       \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22  ACF Nationals 1998\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Questions by Maryland B\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Bonus Questions\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  The Athenian leader Cleon had a reputation for violence and demagoguery.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five, Cleon first came to prominence when he had this Athenian statesman convicted of maladministration of public funds.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Pericles_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For ten, Cleon urged that the inhabitants of what city, who revolted against Athens in 427 BC, be put to death?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Mytilene_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  For ten, Cleon was killed in 422 BC on an expedition to recover which Macedonian city?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Amphipolis_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4.  For a final five, which Greek playwright satirized Cleon in several of his comedies?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Aristophanes_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Identify these contemporary Australian authors for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  His _Tree of Man_ (1954), set in the Australian bush country, is an ambitious attempt to describe the courage, dignity, and essential loneliness of the people in the open farmlands.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Patrick _White_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. She wrote _The Little Hotel_, but her finest novel was a bitter depiction of a fateful marriage, _The Man Who Loved Children_ (1940).\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Christina _Stead_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. He received some overseas fame for _The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith_, but his _Shindlers Ark_ was made into the Oscar-winning _Schindlers List_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Thomas _Keneally_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Identify these linguists not named Noam Chomsky for fifteen points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  A chemical engineer and fire protection officer by profession, he compared the grammar of a "standard average European" with the language of Hopi Indians during his spare time.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Benjamin _Whorf_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  This 18th century scholar proposed that Greek, Latin, and Sanskrit were all derived from a common source, and that Gothic, Old High German, Old Norse, Old Persian, and Celtic were all related.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Sir William _Jones_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. Radiation is bad!  Answer these questions involving radiation and its effects:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five, this unit is the amount of radiation that will produce one-third times 10 to the negative ninth coulombs of electric charge per cubic centimeter of dry air.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Roentgen_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For five, this acronym is defined as the amount of radiation that deposits 10 to the negative second joules per kilogram of energy into a given material.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _rad_ or _radiation absorbed dose_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3.  For ten, the measuring stick of biological damage, it is defined as 1 rad times the relative biological effectiveness factor (or RBE).\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _rem_ or _roentgen equivalent in man_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. For ten, equal to 100 rads times the RBE, it is the SI unit for dose equivalency.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Sievert_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5. Several artists have completed _Odalisques_.  Identify three of them, for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. This student of David painted _Le Grande Odalisque_ in 1819.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Jean-Auguste-Dominique _Ingres_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  He completed a series of _Odalisques_ between 1920 and 1925, in addition to his _Joy of Life_ in 1905.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Henri _Matisse_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. This American artist created the odalisk (spelled with a k), a form that combines photo-transfer painting with the three-dimensional form.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Robert _Rauschenberg_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 6.  Answer the following questions about a particular battle in English history\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 10 pts: In this September 9, 1513 battle, a Scottish army was defeated by the English under the chief lieutenant of King Henry VIII.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Flodden Field_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 5 pts: This Scottish king led his army to defeat and was killed in battle at Flodden Field.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _James IV_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 c. 10 pts: Later made Duke of Norfolk, he commanded the victorious English forces. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Thomas _Howard_ or the Earl of _Surrey_   \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 d. 5 pts: This writer recreated the battle of Flodden Field in the sixth canto of his poem "Marmion." \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Sir Walter _Scott_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 7. Identify the Thomas Mann works for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Set in Mussolini's Italy, this novel demonstrates the dangers of a charismatic conception of political leadership and the powerlessness of the audience in the hands of a hypnotic demagogue.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Mario and the Magician_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Completed during Mann's Swiss and American exile, this four volume novel served as a moving tribute to the Jews in their darkest hour.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Joseph and His Brothers_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. A classic story of four generations of a wealthy bourgeois family in northern Germany, it captures the triumphs and tragedies, successes and failures, and ordinary events of middle-class life as they fall into poverty.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Buddenbrooks_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 8. Answer these related questions.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts: Covering an area of over 40 hectares, it is the largest public square in the world.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Tiananmen Square_\tab \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 15 pts: The Tiananmen Square demonstrations of 1989 began as a memorial rally following the death of this liberal adviser to Deng Xiaoping.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Hu Yaobang_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 10 pts: As Prime Minister, he organized the bloody crackdown against the Tiananmen Square protestors.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Li Peng_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 9. In the 1950s, the American chemist Stanley Miller performed an experiment in an attempt to recreate the formation of life on earth from inorganic molecules.  After creating a gas mixture of four compounds and adding a series of electrical discharges, he}{\f22  was able to obtain a sludge of amino acids within a week of experimenting. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. First for five points each, name the four basic inorganic compounds that he used.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _hydrogen_ (H2), _ammonia_ (NH3), _methane_ (CH4), _water_(H2O)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For ten points, under what famous chemist was Miller working while at the University of California in San Diego, who initially proposed the four compounds hydrogen, ammonia, methane, and water\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 as the basic compounds for life?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Harold _Urey_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10.  Answer these questions about baroque organists, 5-10-15.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts: This organist at Vienna, Stuttgart, and Nurnberg  was the teacher of Johann Christian Bach.  His Greatest Hit CD can be found at most good record stores.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Johann _Pachelbel_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 10 pts: The organist post at St. Gervais in France was held by a member of this family for 173 years beginning in 1653.  Members include Charles, Gervais, Francois, Celeste, Louis, and Nicolas.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Couperin_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 15 pts:  Johann Sebastian Bach hiked 40 miles as a boy to see this Danish composer and organist, who was viewed as the premier virtuoso of the instrument during his tenure at St. Marys Church in Lubeck.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Dietrich _Buxtehude_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 11.  Hedonism has come in several forms throughout time.  For ten points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Also known as egotistical hedonists, this ancient movement  espoused a doctrine in which gratification of one's immediate desires without regard for others is the true end of existence.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Cyreniacs_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Also called rational hedonism, this doctrine contends that pleasure can be attained only by reason, stressing self-control and prudence as virtue.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Epicurianism_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Once known as universal hedonism, this belief considers the  greatest good for the greatest number of people as the ultimate  goal of human society.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Utilitarianism_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 12. Name these types of microscopes for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Improved resolution due to shorter wavelengths and a decrease in diffraction have shown that these microscopes can magnify approximately 10,000 times more than the average light microscope.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _electron_ microscope\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Electrons focused by magnets rather than lenses pass through thinly sliced specimens and fall on a photographic or phosphorescent plate to produce an image.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _transmission electron microscope_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Abbreviated STM, the ultrafine tip attached to this microscope moves back and forth over a metal coated sample.  Through a computer, one can reconstruct the topography and map the sample on a video monitor.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _scanning tunnelling microscope_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 13. Answer these related literary questions for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. This poem by Edgar Lee Masters ends, "I ended up with a broken fiddle/and a broken laugh, and a thousand memories/and not a single regret."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer: _Fiddler Jones_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. This play by Eugene O'Neill featuring a former Pullman porter was also successful as a 1933 opera by Louis Gruenberg.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _The Emperor Jones_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. The World War II novel _From Here to Eternity_  about four infantrymen from Honolulu was written by this man.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _James Jones_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 14. If you have visited Adam Fine's web page, you'll notice that his favorite director is Alfred Hitchcock.  Identify the following Hitchcock films from plot summaries for fifteen points each; if you need the lead actor and actress, you will receive five p}{\f22 oints.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 15 pts:  Dr. Constance Peterson immediately falls in love with the new director of a mental hospital, Dr. Edwardes.  The problem?   The real Dr. Edwardes is dead, and a mental patient with a guilt complex is posing as him.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts:  Ingrid Bergman, Gregory Peck\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _"Spellbound"_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 15 pts:  A former tennis player and society playboy, Tony Wendice, plots the death of his wealthy wife, Margot.  His plans go awry when in self-defense Margot kills the man Tony hired to do the deed with a pair of scissors.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts:  Grace Kelly, Ray Milland\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _"Dial M for Murder_"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15. For ten points each, given the name of a Supreme Court associate justice, name the president who appointed him.  If you need the name of a chief justice appointed by the same president, you will receive five points.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 10 pts: Stephen Field\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: Salmon Chase\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Abraham _Lincoln_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 10 pts: Bushrod Washington\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: John Marshall\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: John _Adams_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 10 pts: Charles Whittaker\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5 pts: Earl Warren\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Dwight _Eisenhower_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 16. Answer these questions about the 1937 novel _Their Eyes Were Watching God_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five, who wrote it?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Zora Neale _Hurston_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For five, Hurston's novel deals with the lives of rural African-Americans in what southern state?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Florida_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. For ten, name the novel's protagonist, whose hopes of living as an individual are ruined by marriages to two men who could not fulfill her dreams.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Janie_ Crawford\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. For ten, name Janie's third husband, a younger man who takes her away from life as a mayor's wife to live in the swamps of Florida.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Tea Cake_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 17. Answer these questions about black holes:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 10 pts: This American physicist gave black holes their name.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: John _Wheeler_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 5 pts: This is the limit beyond which light cannot escape.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _event horizon_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 5 pts: Postulated by the general theory of relativity, this is the innermost core of a black hole at which the density becomes infinite and the laws of physics break down.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _singularity_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. 10 pts: In 1990, the Very Large Array telescope in New Mexico obtained detailed images of the center of this galaxy, showing the existence of a black hole 4 million times larger than the sun.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Milky Way_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 18.  Identify these types of schizophrenia given symptoms for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Hallucinations, delusions, incoherent speech patterns, rapid mood swings, the invention of new words, and giggling in a childish manner are all quite common.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _disorganized_ or _hebephrenic_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. This type is characterized by delusions of persecution with voices criticizing or threatening the victim.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _paranoid_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Victims will often stare into empty space for long periods of time, rendering limbs stiff and swollen.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _catatonic_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 19.  On April 1, 1999, Canada's Northwest Territories will be divided to form a new territory mostly populated by Inuit Indians.  Both the territory and its capital have 7-letter names that look like Scrabble racks.  For 15 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1.  Name the new territory, whose name means "place of fish" in Inuit and contains an anagram of the word "tuna."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer:  Nunavut\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2.  Name Nunavut's proposed capital city, whose name contains an anagram of the word "vital".\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Answer:  Iqalvit\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 20. 30-20-10: identify the musical instrument:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. The Englishman John Dowland was one of the most accomplished composers for this instrument, a descendant of the ancient Persian ud.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Shaped like half a pear, its original four strings were replaced by pairs of strings to increase resonance during the 15th century, yet this excess, especially in the lower ranges, eventually led to its decline. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. This member of the string family, similar to the guitar, is played by strumming or plucking.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Lute_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 21. For fifteen points each, identify these cities of Pre-Columbian meso-America.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. The capital of a 10,000 square mile empire, this first great urban experiment of the New World dominated the region near today's Mexico City from the first through sixth centuries A.D.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Teotihuacan_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. The people of this city were prodigious ball players, evident by the uncovered ruins of at least 11 game courts.  Ruins of the city bear red, black, and blue paint that once covered its temples and houses, but its culture soon faded after the Totonacs t}{\f22 ook over the area.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _El Tajin_\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}}