{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\f4 \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s2 \ql \sl240 \f22 \sbasedon222 \snext2 Default;}{\*\cs3 \additive \ql \sl240 \f4 \fs18 \snext3 Default SS;}{\s4 \qc \sl240 \fs28 \b \sbasedon2 \snext4 Header;}{\s5 \ql \sl240 \sbasedon2 \snext5 Body;}{\s6 \qc \sl240 \i \sbasedon2 \snext6 Footer;}{\s7 \ql \sl240 \fs20 \sbasedon2 \snext7 Footnote;}{\*\cs8 \additive \ql \sl240 \up6 \snext8 Footnote Index;}}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1440 {\headerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\headerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 ACF Nationals 1998\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Questions by Yale\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Tossups\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Its name refers to an ancient Benedictine monastery at Tengersee (TENG-ur-zay) around which the town formed in the mid-eleventh century on the Isar River.  Most of its famous buildings were destroyed in World War II, including the 12th-century Church of}{\f22  St. Peter and the palace of the Dukes of Bavaria.  FTP, name this birthplace of the Nazi party and host of the 1972 Summer Olympics. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Munich_ (accept _Muenchen_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. "The larger view, always and through all shams, all wickednesses, discovers the Truth that will, in the end, prevail, and all things, surely, inevitably, resistlessly work together for good."  So ends this 1901 novel about the struggle between a group o}{\f22 f farmers and the Pacific & Southwestern Railroad company.  FTP, name this Frank Norris work subtitled "A Story of California" that was the first volume of his unfinished trilogy _Epic of the Wheat_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _The Octopus_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Though wounded at the battles of Chancellorsville, Ball's Bluff, and Antietam, he described war as an "organized bore."  This author of the 1881 book "The Common Law" served briefly as Chief Justice of Massachusetts before moving to Washington in 1902. }{\f22  FTP, name this U.S. Supreme Court justice whose opinions in cases like Lochner v. New York earned him the nickname "The Great Dissenter."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Oliver Wendell _Holmes_, _Jr._ (both required)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. For a discontinuous function, the Gibbs Phenomenon states that it will produce an error of about nine percent of the function's maximum value.  But for a continuous function, Dirichlet's (DEER-a-clayz) Condition ensures that it converges to the function}{\f22  value, making it a valuable tool for approximation.  FTP, name this infinite trigonometric series that decomposes functions into sine and cosine waves.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Fourier_ (FOR-e-ay) series\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5. They are mentioned in Psalm 139, and according to legend, the most famous one belonged to Judah Loew ben Bezulel of Prague.  One tradition says that they can be brought to life by writing the Hebrew word for "truth" on their hands; removing the initial }{\f22 letter spells "death", which causes them to die.  FTP, identify these robot-like servants who appear as protectors and sometimes avengers in Jewish folklore.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _golem_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 6. His poetry collection, "Man: A Broad Garden," was condemned by the government for its eroticism, while his second novel, _Life is Elsewhere_, got him thrown out of the Communist party.  He was forced to emigrate in 1975 and stripped of his citizenship f}{\f22 our years later after the publication of his _The Book of Laughter and Forgetting_.  FTP, name this author whose works were banned in his native Czechoslovakia until 1989 and who wrote _The Unbearable Lightness of Being_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Milan _Kundera_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 7. He won important victories at Valcou Island, Fort Stanwix, Danbury, and Fort Ticonderoga and became a national hero for his gallantry in the doomed Quebec campaign.  But he became bitter over Congress' failure to promote him, and after the capture of Ma}{\f22 jor John Andre, he was forced to flee to the British. FTP, name this Revolutionary War commander who is now best remembered for his treasonous attempt to betray the fortress of West Point.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Benedict _Arnold_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 8. Prometheus and Amalthea were once thought to be the only ones, but it is now known that Cordelia, Ophelia, and a few others serve this function as well.  All of these tiny moons lie just beyond a distance known as the Roche limit, and it is thought that}{\f22  if they drift any closer, they will be torn apart by the planet's gravity.  FTP, name this special type of satellite whose own\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 gravitational fields hold planetary rings together.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Shepherd_ moons (prompt on "moons inside rings" or the equivalent)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 9. They were elected every five years, but their terms in office automatically expired after eighteen months, concluding with a solemn ceremony known as the lustrum.  The office was usually limited to ex-consuls, and its powers included control over public}{\f22  contracts and the right to expel members from the Senate.  FTP, name these Roman officials in charge of public morals whose duties were originally restricted to counting the population. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Censors_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10. Its opening passage announces that "man is not yet a self," but rather a disunity, torn apart by a corruption that the Church calls Sin and the author calls Despair.  Its title refers to the work's central analogy, which compares the despairing man to }{\f22 a suffering invalid who wishes to die but can't.  FTP, name this philosophical study of melancholy, written in 1849 by Soren Kierkegaard.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Sickness Unto Death_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 11. While serving as Secretary of State for External Affairs, he helped to end the Suez crisis and was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize in 1957.  The next year, he replaced Louis St. Laurent as head of the opposition Liberal party.  In 1963, he defeated John Di}{\f22 efenbaker and became Prime Minister, an office which he held until his retirement in 1968.  FTP, name this Canadian statesman.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Lester Bowles _Pearson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 12. Once banned in England, France, and Pennsylvania, it is divided into five "acts," the first of which is titled "Men and Maggots."  Made in 1925, it tells of an event twenty years earlier, when a sailors' mutiny sparked an urban riot during which unarme}{\f22 d civilians were attacked by the Russian military.  FTP, name this Sergei Eisenstein film most famous for the oft-parodied scene on the Odessa Steps. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Battleship Potemkin_ or _Bronenosets Potyomkin_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 13. The term comes from the Greek for "sing," and the first ones were probably written as choral pieces in Greek drama.  The oldest surviving ones were written by Alcman.  Andrew Marvell's is written in the Horatian manner "upon Cromwell's Return from Lond}{\f22 on."  Pindaric ones have been written by Ben Jonson, John Milton, and Thomas Gray.  FTP, identify this type of ceremonious poem also associated with John Keats.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _ode_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 14. This group also known as the Ye He Tuan practiced martial arts and calisthenics in the belief that they would gain supernatural powers.  Although they probably enjoyed the secret support of the Dowager Empress Tsu Hsi (tsoo shee), their skills were not}{\f22  enough to rid China of foreign influences.  FTP, name this group of "righteous and harmonious fists" whose 1900 rebellion attacked missionaries, Christian converts and foreigners.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: the _Boxers_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15. Its three genii are Helogale, Eupleres, and the more famous Herpestes.  They feed on most smaller animals and caused ecological havoc when introduced to the island of Jamaica.  In India, they were prized for their ability to kill snakes, though if bitt}{\f22 en, they will not seek out an herbal remedy.  FTP, identify this animal whose most famous literary example is Rikki-Tikki-Tavi. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _mongoose_ (accept cusimanses or meerkat)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 16. It starts with an etymology, followed by a short lamentation by a sub-sub-librarian, then quotes from Genesis, Job, Jonah, Psalms, Isaiah, and seventy-one other sources.  Its chapter titles include The Symphony, The Crotch, The Ramadan, Queen Mab, The }{\f22 Sphynx, The Doubloon, The Forge, The Candles, The Musket, and The Castaway.  FTP, identify this 1851 novel dedicated to Nathaniel Hawthorne whose first words are not actually "Call me Ishmael."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Moby-Dick_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 17. In 1960, fifteen years after his death, the U.S. military admitted to infringing on nearly 200 of his patents and paid his widow over a million dollars in compensation.  Among his inventions were a fuel made of liquid oxygen and paraffin, a multi-stage}{\f22  launcher, and the world's first gyroscopically-controlled rocket.  FTP, name this Clark University professor posthumously recognized as the father of modern rocketry.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Robert _Goddard_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 18. They believe that God's kingdom is an actual government now ruling in heaven that will soon purify the earth in a "great tribulation."  They have no official clergy (since all their believers are considered ministers) and are forbidden to vote, bear ar}{\f22 ms, or salute the flag.  FTP, name this religious group founded by Charles Taze Russell probably best known for its door-to-door proselytizing.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Jehovah's Witnesses_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 19. In 1938, his "American Photographs" became the first exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art ever devoted to the work of a single photographer.  Though he is most famous for his scenes of rural life, he was heavily influenced by the cityscapes of Eugene At}{\f22 get, as reflected in "Many are Called," a 1971 collection of subway photos.  FTP, name this photographer, best known for his 1941\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 collaboration with James Agee in "Let Us Now Praise Famous Men".\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Walker _Evans_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 20. Its point-contact model has been obsolete since about 1950.  Ordinarily constructed using metals, semiconductors and metal oxides, they are particularly useful in amplifying and rectifying microwaves.  FTP, identify this basic unit in computer circuits}{\f22  invented by Bardeen, Brattain, and Shockley whose two general types in use today are the bipolar junction and the field-effect.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _transistor_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 21. When describing the theme of his works, he cited the aphorism that "man produces evil as a bee produces honey." Particularly grim examples of this are found in _The Inheritors_, which tells of the extermination of the Neanderthals, and in his Booker Pr}{\f22 ize-winning _Rites of Passage_.  Some critics rank _Pincher Martin_ as his best novel, but he is more famous for a novel about schoolboys who revert to savagery.  FTP, name this author of _Lord of the Flies_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: William _Golding_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 22. Their main types are nido, closo, and arachno, and they are remarkable in that their structures cannot be described with a conventional covalent bond model.  The simplest can reduce carboxylic acids to primary alcohols, though it is more commonly done }{\f22 with a sodium salt, as the simplest one is always dimerized. FTP, name these electron-deficient compounds which are the smallest known to have three-center, two-electron bonds. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _boranes_ or _boron hydrides_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 23. It was written for Sylvester Paumgartner and several other friends of the composer, which explains its unusual arrangement of violin, viola, cello, double-bass, and piano.  For 10 points, name this chamber piece discovered only after Franz Schubert's d}{\f22 eath that contains variations on a folk song about fish. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: The _Trout_ Quintet (accept: Piano Quintet in A or Follernquintett)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 24. Guesde called it a "bourgeois squabble", while Jaures said "no socialist could remain aloof."  After two military trials and a civilian trial, the case was finally closed in 1930, when Germany released military documents that proved the innocence of th}{\f22 e defendant and the guilt of Major Charles Esterhazy.  FTP, name this French espionage scandal heavily tainted by anti-Semitism, which prompted Emile Zola's "J'accuse."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: the _Dreyfus_ Affair\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 Bonus Questions\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Name the country, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Its highest point is the 7,500-foot Bette Peak in the southern Tibesti Mountains. The country has no perennial rivers, but underground aquifers support artesian wells serving over half its area.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Its national holidays include Revolution Day, British Evacuation Day, and U.S. Evacuation Day.  A monarchy until 1969, its nominal head of government is Prime Minister Abdulmajid Algaoud.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. This Socialist People's Arab Jamajiriya controls Africa's largest oil reserves  but has been able to export very little of it due to a United Nations embargo in place since 1992.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Libya_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. When in Rome, do as the Romans do. When not in Rome, identify these artists related to Rome for ten points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. This sculptor designed the Trevi fountain.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  Niccolo _Salvi_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. He created tapestries for the Sistine Chapel, and his "Transfiguration" hangs in the Vatican museum.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer:  _Raphael_ or Raffaello _Sanzio_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. This composer wrote "Fountains of Rome", "Pines of Rome", and "Roman Festival".\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Ottorino _Respighi_ (ra-SPEE-ghee)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Identify the American statesman, 30-15-5.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. He was one of the original organizers of the United Nations and served as its U.S. Ambassador from 1961 to 1965.  His published works include "Call to Greatness", and "Looking Outward: Years of Crisis at the United Nations."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. His grandfather, who had the same first and last name, was Vice-President under Grover Cleveland from 1893 to 1897.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. He lost the Presidential elections of 1952 and 1956 to Eisenhower.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Adlai _Stevenson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. Answer these questions about "The Count of Monte Cristo":\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five points, who wrote it?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Alexandre _Dumas_, _pere_ (both required)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For five points, what is the Count's real name?  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Edmond _Dantes_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. For ten points, name the castle where Edmond Dantes is unjustly imprisoned.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Chateau d'_If_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. For a final ten points, to what Mediterranean island group does the real island of Monte Cristo belong?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: The _Tuscan_ Archipelago or Arcipelago _Toscano_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 5. Identify these geologic periods:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts:  Give the name for the current geologic period.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Quaternary_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 10 pts: Earth's greatest mass extinction occurred at the end of this period, the last of the Paleozoic Era.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Permian_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 15 pts: Forests and amphibians first appeared in this period that began about 365 million years ago.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Devonian_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 6. Answer the following about the Emancipation Proclamation:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five points, Lincoln was only able to announce the Proclamation after what September 1862 battle strengthened his political position?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Antietam_ or _Sharpsburg_ \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For ten points, on what exact day, month and year did the Proclamation take effect?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _January 1, 1863_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Only two present-day Western Hemisphere countries waited longer to abolish slavery than the United States.  You'll receive 5 points for naming one and 15 for both, one of which was not yet independent at the time of the Emancipation Proclamation.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Brazil_ and _Cuba_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 7. Identify the person, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Born in York, one of his brothers was killed in a battle near Dunkirk.  His chosen career was a great disappointment to his German-born father, who wanted him to be a lawyer.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. On his first voyage, he was captured and enslaved by pirates but escaped with the help of a Moorish cabin boy.  After reaching freedom, he then sold the cabin boy into slavery, perhaps proving that he really should have been a lawyer after all.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Toward the end of his life, this fictional mariner became governor of the island on which he was shipwrecked for 28 years.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Robinson _Crusoe_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 8. Psychologists often describe human development in terms of a series of stages.  I'll name three such stages for a given psychologist.  For 5 points each, name the psychologist; for 5 more, give the next stage. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. pre-operational, sensorimotor, concrete operational\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Jean _Piaget_, _formal operational_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. denial, depression, bargaining\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Elizabeth _Kuebler-Ross_, _anger_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. oral, anal, phallic\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Sigmund _Freud_, _latency_ (or latent)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 9. For ten points each, name the organ of the human body where you'd find these anatomical folds or ripples:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. the villi\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _small intestine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. the convolutions\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _brain_ (accept _cerebral cortex_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. rugae (ROO-gay) (two possible answers)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _stomach_ or _bladder_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 10. Answer these questions about Italian playwrights:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts: The title characters of this 1921 work are the Stepdaughter, the Son, the Father, the Mother, the Boy, and the Child.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Six Characters in Search of an Author_ or _Sei personaggi\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 in cerca di autore_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 10 pts: He both wrote and performed _Mistero Buffo_, a 1974 one-man play based on medieval mystery cycles.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Dario _Fo_ \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 15 pts: This playwright of the commedia dell'arte is best known for his "Love of Three Oranges," which was adapted into an opera by Sergei Prokofiev.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Carlo _Gozzi_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 11. For ten points each, name the poet whose work was the inspiration for these classical music pieces: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Sergei Rachmaninov's "Kolokola"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Edgar Allan _Poe_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Franz Liszt's "Les Preludes"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Alphonse de _Lamartine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Claude Debussy's "Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Stephane _Mallarme_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 12. For 10 points each, name the philosopher who wrote each of these works: \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. The World as Will and Idea\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Arthur _Schopenhauer_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Speech and Phenomena\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Jacques _Derrida_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Friedrich _Nietzsche_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 13. Answer these related questions for ten points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. What Connecticut poet's first book of poetry was 1923's "Harmonium?"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Wallace _Stevens_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. What American composer composed "Harmonium" in 1981?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: John _Adams_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. John Adams' "Harmonium" contains a setting of "Wild Nights" by what poet?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Emily _Dickinson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 14. Answer these questions about the Egyptian pharaoh known to history as the "heretic king":\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. In his sixth year as king, Amenhotep IV tried to establish a monotheistic state religion.  For five points, give the new name which Amenhotep adopted in honor of his god.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Akhenaton_(AWK-na-tun)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For five points, name Akhenaton's wife.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Nefertiti_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. For ten points, name his son-in-law.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Tutankhamun_ (prompt on "King Tut")\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. For ten, give the century before Christ during which Akhenaton reigned.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _14th_ century B.C.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 15. Identify these related works of literature:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts: Marlow and Hastings mistake Mr. Hardcastle's house for an inn in this comedy by Oliver Goldsmith.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _She Stoops to Conquer_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 10 pts: All that's best of dark and bright meet in her aspect and her eyes in this poem from Lord Byron's _Hebrew Melodies_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _She Walks in Beauty_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 15 pts: The title character of this Rider Haggard adventure novel is Ayesha, the two-thousand-year-old queen of the lost city of Kor.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _She_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 16. Identify the chemical element, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Discovered in 1898 by Ramsey and Travers, it comes in nine stable and seven radioactive isotopes.  Usually extracted through distillation from liquid air, its own liquid form is used as a solvent for infrared spectroscopy.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. A compound of platinum, fluorine, and this element was the first compound of a noble gas ever to be synthesized.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. Its name comes from the Greek for "strange," and it is the heaviest of the non-radioactive noble gases.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _xenon_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 17. Identify these famous Joneses.  Hint: none of the answers is "Love Jones".\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts: This man's most famous military exploit was his victory over the Serapis during the American Revolution.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _John Paul_ Jones\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 10 pts: Though better known as an architect, he also worked as a scenery designer for Ben Jonson.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Inigo_ Jones\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 15 pts. He was the last President of Texas.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Anson_ Jones\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 18. For ten points each, answer these questions about those confusing intertwined family relationships from Greek mythology:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. Ganymede was the cupbearer and personal boy-toy of Zeus but was also the oldest brother of which ill-fated king?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Priam_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. Actaeon, Pentheus, and Dionysus were grandsons of this man, who was a great-great-grandfather of Oedipus and was turned into a snake by the gods.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Cadmus_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. This daughter of the titans Coeus and Phoebe was a double-first cousin of Zeus and mother of two of his children.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _Leto_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 19. Pencils and paper ready!  Give the derivatives of these functions of x.  You can ignore the "dx" part of the answer:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts: cosine of x\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _negative sine_ of x\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 5 pts: natural logarithm of x\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _1 over x_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 10 pts: sine squared of x\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _2 sine of x [times] cosine of x_ or _sine of 2x_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 4. 10 pts: arctangent of x [You have 10 seconds for this one.]\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: _1 over (1 plus x squared)_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 20. Name these Japanese World War II figures:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. 5 pts: He designed the attack on Pearl Harbor in spite of his personal misgivings about the war.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Isoroku _Yamamoto_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. 5 pts: He became prime minister in 1941, resigned in 1944, and was executed for war crimes in 1948.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Hideki _Tojo_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 10 pts: His lightning conquest of Southeast Asia in 1942 won him the nickname of "The Tiger of Malaya."  In 1944-45, he led the Japanese defense of the Philippines.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Tomokjuki _Yamashita_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. 10 pts: He became leader of Japan after the Tojo government fell in 1944. His government itself fell after the U.S. invasion of Okinawa.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Kuniaki _Koiso_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 21. Answer these questions about one of the central texts of the Anglican church:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 1. For five points, give the name of the service book used in the Church of England and other churches of the Anglican communion.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: the _Book of Common Prayer_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 2. For fifteen points, name the 1662 Act of Parliament which authorized the compilation of the Book of Common Prayer.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Act of _Uniformity_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 3. The 1662 Book of Common Prayer is derived from a 1552 breviary prepared by the Archbishop of Canterbury for the King of England. For five points each, name the Archbishop and the King.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 answer: Thomas _Cranmer_, _Edward VI_\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f22 \par 
}}