{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1200 \pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1997 ACF Nationals\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Questions by Maryland A\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  In the Prose Edda, it is reported that this god was the son of nine virgin priestesses.  His sword was Hofud; his house was called Himinbjorg; and his horse was named Gulltopp.  The necklace of Freyja, Brisingamen, was the object of contention in a lon}{\f23 \fs20 g series of bitter battles between him and Loki, whom he finally killed at Ragnarok.  FTP, name this owner of the Yallerhorn, famous for his ability to hear the \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 wool growing on sheep.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Heimdall\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  Calm, detatched, meticulous precision was the hallmark of this school of poetry, active from 1860-1880.  Influenced by Theophile Gautier's theory of Art for Art's sake, they were led by Leconte de Lisle.  Its principles were followed by Francois Coppee}{\f23 \fs20 , Theodore de Banville, Sully Prudhomme, and Paul Verlaine.  FTP, identify this group named after the sacred mountain of the Muses.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  The Parnassians\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  Amazingly, this man received a pardon in 1788, and lived quietly in western New York until his death in 1825.  A veteran of Bunker Hill and Saratoga, he was not fighting under the American flag in 1787:  his band of followers met defeat and was pursued}{\f23 \fs20  to Petersham.  FTP, name this leader of an insurrection aimed at the Springfield Arsenal in Massachusetts.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Daniel Shays\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 4.  This tree of eastern North America, Tsuga canadensis, has small cones and short, dark-green leaves that give the branchlets a flat appearance.  A member of the pine family, it is grown as an ornamental and has been valued as a source of tanbark.  FTP, }{\f23 \fs20 name this tree, whose namesake poisonous herb was used in ancient Greece to execute criminals.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  hemlock\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5.  In 1884, this man went to Boston to teach, where he met William Dean Howells and began to write novels such as Jason Edwards and  Rose Dutcher's Cooly.  His Main-Travelled Roads is a collection of local color stories like "Under the Lion's Paw," but he}{\f23 \fs20  is best known for an autobiographical work which won the 1922 Pulitzer Prize.  FTP, who is this author of A Daughter of the Middle Border?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Hannibal Hamlin Garland\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 6.  Its cities include Veszprem, Pecs, and Bekescsaba.  The largest lake in Europe, Lake Balaton, is a leading resort area of this country, part of whose northern border is formed by the Danube, which then turns south and bisects the country.  FTP, name th}{\f23 \fs20 is country, which has been led by Janos Kadar and Imre Nagy.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Hungary\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 7.  His father was secretary of war and attorney general in Grant's cabinet, and he was also a secretary of war.  He became head of the U.S. Philippines Commission and was the first civil governor of the Philippines, later serving as provisional governor o}{\f23 \fs20 f Cuba before becoming president.  His administration dissolved Standard Oil, instituted the Department of Labor, and drafted the 16th and 17th amendments.  \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 FTP, name this president from 1909 to 1913.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  William Howard Taft\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 8.  M.D. Hatch and C. R. Slack first worked out the biochemical pathway for this transformation.  Typically seen in plants with Kranz anatomy like corn and sugarcane, it provides an advantage under conditions of high temperature and intense light, where pl}{\f23 \fs20 ants are unable to use carbon dioxide effectively.  FTP, what is this type of photosynthesis named for the compound which is broken down in \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 the bundle-sheath cells?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer: C4 (see-four) photosynthesis\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 9.  This work was written under the pseudonym "Johannes de silentio"--John of Silence.  It contains the infamous doctrine of the "teleological suspension of the ethical," which challenged the contemporary views of Hegel's universal moral system.  Among its}{\f23 \fs20  8 parts are the Attunement, the Speech in Praise of Abraham, the Preamble from the Heart, and 3 Problemata.  The title is taken from Philippians 2:12.  FTP, \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 what is this work in which Soren Kierkegaard holds up Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac as a model for faith?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Fear and Trembling\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 10.  At age 14 he entered, as the youngest participant, and won the competition for the first Mendelssohn Scholarship. Jimmy Durante's song "The guy who found the Lost Chord" is a reference to one of his ballads.  In addition to composing "Onward Christian}{\f23 \fs20  Soldiers," he also composed the Irish Symphony and the grand opera Ivanhoe. Though his first venture into comic opera was in 1867, with writer F.C. Brunand but, he is best known for his operettas.  FTP  identify the composer of Princess Ida, Patience, and}{\f23 \fs20  The Pirates of Penzance.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Sir Arthur Sullivan\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 11.  This king led an unsuccessful expedition to Gascony and Brittany against the advice of his adviser, Hubert de Burgh.  His subserviance to the papacy, his reliance on French favorites and his attempt to put his son Edmund on the throne of Sicily eventu}{\f23 \fs20 ally led to the Barons' War.  FTP, name this king of England from 1216 to 1272, the son and successor of John.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Henry III\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 12.  He got his nickname from Harry Houdini while he was a member of his parents' acrobatic troupe.  His character in his films is usually a "schlemiel" who survives in spite of the most unfortunate mishaps.  In 1922, he put out two shorts, "Cops" and "The}{\f23 \fs20  Balloonatic," and followed them with "Sherlock Junior" and "The Navigator."  FTP, name this comedian whose deadpan face and acrobatic skill helped make "The \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 General" a classic of silent film. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Buster Keaton\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 13.  He was a friend of Thomas Gray, with whom he toured Europe in 1739.  He purchased a small villa which he gradually "gothicized" into the stuccoed and battlemented castle of Strawberry Hill.  There he established a private press, and wrote such works a}{\f23 \fs20 s the Journal of the Reign of King George the Third and The Mysterious Mother.  FTP, name this man who also intoduced a gothicizing style in writing with his Castle of Otranto.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Horace Walpole\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 14.  Born in Nashville, this astronomer discovered 16 comets while at the Lick and Yerkes observatories and concluded that areas of the sky apparently devoid of starts were composed of clouds of obscuring matter.  He also discovered Amalthea, the fifth sat}{\f23 \fs20 ellite of Jupiter, but his most famous discovery occurred in 1916, when he found a star 5.9 light-years from earth with a proper motion of 10.3 arc seconds per year.  FTP, who is this man whose star takes only 200 years to travel the apparent angular diame}{\f23 \fs20 ter of the moon?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Edward Emerson Barnard\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 15.  This man managed the Washington Senators/Texas Rangers from 1969 to 1972.  His 2,019 walks and .634 slugging percentage are both second all-time to Babe Ruth, and he is tied for 10th on the home run list with Willie McCovey at 521.  FTP, name this man}{\f23 \fs20 , who won the Triple Crown twice, but played in the World Series only once, in 1946, for the Boston Red Sox.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Ted Williams\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 16.  This Old Testament book contains a dream of a statue with a head of gold, silver chest, bronze belly, iron legs, and feet of clay.  In chapter 8 there is a vision of a lion, a bear, a leopard, and a many-horned terrifying beast.  The next chapter cont}{\f23 \fs20 ains a vision of a two-horned ram and a goat which destroys the ram.  All these visions are interpreted by the same man who explains the meaning behind the words, "Mene, mene, tekel, parsin."  FTP, name this book of the Bible or its main character who surv}{\f23 \fs20 ives the lions' den.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  The Book of Daniel\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 17.  This two-word term was first used in John Dryden's The Conquest of Granada.  The concept it signifies was employed by Rousseau and is a convention common to Voltaire's Ingenu, Chateaubriand's novels Rene, Atala and Les Natchez.  FTP, name this concept}{\f23 \fs20  in which indigenous New World and Eastern peoples, free from European authoritarian governments, conflicting dogmas, and persecution, were made to seem uncorrupted and pure. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Noble Savage\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 18.  Among his perversions was a fish-pond in which he would induce minnows to nibble at his genitals, and he owned a famous illustrated book of pornography by the author Elephantus.  His restraint disappeared when his mother Livia died, and he allowed the}{\f23 \fs20  Roman Empire to be run by his lieutenant Sejanus while he himself lived on the Isle of Capri.  FTP, name this Emperor, the second of the Julio-Claudians.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Tiberius\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 19.  Painted on ten vertical panels of oak, a music book is visible open to part of the score of the Lutheran hymn "Komm, heiliger Geist." An arithmetic book was copied from a manual published by Peter Apian in 1527.  The mosiac pavement is derived from th}{\f23 \fs20 e floor of the Santuary of Westminster Abbey, and Jean de Dinteville is wearing a badge of the order of St. Michael.  FTP, what is this 1533 painting whose most prominent feature is an anamorphosed skull, a double portrait of Dinteville and George de Selve}{\f23 \fs20  executed by Hans Holbein the Younger?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  The Two Ambassadors or French Ambassadors or equivalents\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 20.  This mathematician proposed that the Earth could signal inhabitants of Mars by drawing huge geometric patterns in the Siberian snow, but his plan was never carried out.  Baron Franz Xavier von Zach used this man's measurements in late 1801 to rediscov}{\f23 \fs20 er Ceres, which Piazzi has lost earlier in the year.  FTP, who is this German whose mathematical accomplishments include four different proofs of the fundamental theorem of algebra and the method of least squares?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Karl Friedrich Gauss\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20  21.  This ancient city's rulers were messed up from the very beginning.  Some of the things that went on:  Lycus imprisons Antiope and leaves her twin sons Zethus and Amphion on a mountain to die.  Zethus and Amphion come back and kill Lycus' wife Dirce b}{\f23 \fs20 y tying her to the horns of a bull.  Then Amphion's wife gets a big head and brags about her 12 kids; Apollo and Artemis come down and kill them all; her name was Niobe.  FTP, all these things took place at what city whose other misfits included Laius, Joc}{\f23 \fs20 asta, and Oedipus?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Thebes\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 22.  A philosophical essay, it opens with the theme that since "all is vanity", life should be enjoyed.  It is narrated by the Philosopher, who is traditionally thought to be Solomon even though the book was written around the third century B.C.  FTP, name}{\f23 \fs20  this Old Testament book which contains the line "The sun also rises", and follows Proverbs.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Ecclesiastes\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 23.  He began a profit-sharing plan that distributed up to $30 million annually among his employees, and he caused a sensation in 1914 by paying his workers five dollars for an 8-hour day.  While working as a machinist and engineer with the Edison Company,}{\f23 \fs20  he built his first automobile in his spare time.  FTP, name this designer of the Model A.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Henry Ford\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1997 ACF Nationals\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Questions by Maryland I\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  Identify the authors of the following foliate works FTP each, five if you need more works.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  10:  Leaf Storm\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  No One Writes to the Colonel and The Autumn of the Patriarch\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Gabriel Garcia Marquez\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  10:  "Red Leaves"\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  These Thirteen and Knight's Gambit\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  William Faulkner\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  10:  The Trembling of a Leaf\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  Cakes and Ale and The Razor's Edge\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  William Somerset Maugham\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  For the stated number of points, answer the following concerning Cyprus.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  5:  Name its capital.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Nicosia\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  5:  Name the archbishop of Cyprus who led its independence movement and became Cyprus' first president in 1960. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Makarios III\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  10:  At 6,406 feet, this is the highest peak in Cyprus.  It has a familiar name.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Mount Olympus\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 4.  10:  This city in Cyprus is the legendary birthplace of Aphrodite.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Pafos\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  Identify the architects of these Washington, DC landmarks FTP each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  The Supreme Court building\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Cass Gilbert\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  Lincoln Memorial\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Henry Bacon\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  East Wing of the National Gallery of Art\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Ieoh Ming Pei\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 4.  Identify the character which performs the following functions in the C programming language FTP each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  This character precedes all preprocessor directives.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  # (pound sign)\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  In addition to a better known usage, this character functions as the address operator.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  & (ampersand)\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  This character is the bitwise exclusive or operator. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  ^ (caret; do not accept ||, which is logical or)\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5.  For the stated number of points, answer the following concerning the Veda.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  The Samhita, the basic compilation of prayers and hymns, includes three canonical bodies of hymns.  \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 For 5 points each, name them.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Rig-Veda, Sama-Veda, Yajur-Veda\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  For 10 points, this other section of the Samhita is a collection of magic spells.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Atharva-Veda\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  For 5 points, this final section of the Veda forms the basis for the later philosophical schools of Vedanta and contains information on Vedic sacrifice and yoga.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Upanishads\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 6.  30-20-10, name the poem from lines.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  "Is there--is there balm in Gilead?--tell me--tell me, I / implore!"\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  "Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December; / And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the / floor."\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  "From my books surcease of sorrow--sorrow for the lost Lenore-- / For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore--"\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  The Raven (do not accept Baltimore Ravens)\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 7.  Name this African countries given former rulers or presidents on a 10-5 basis.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  10:  David Dacko\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  Jean-Bedel Bokassa\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Central African Republic\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  10:  Jerry Rawlings\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  Kwame Nkrumah\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Ghana\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  10:  Hendrik Verwoerd\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  Pieter Willem Botha\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  South Africa\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 8.  Identify these "D" terms from biology for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  A mutation in which a segment of DNA breaks off of a chromosome.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  deletion\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  This is the outer layer of the menenges.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  dura mater\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  From the Latin for "to stand apart," it refers to a part of the body situated away from the middle.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  distal\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 9.  Answer the following about a medieval monastery FTP each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  In 1190 some monks dug up a log coffin buried 16 feet deep containing two bodies.  A leaden cross was found with an inscription that John Leland writing in 1533 translates as saying \'93Here lies the famous King Arthur, buried in the isle of Avalon.\'94  FFP}{\f23 \fs20  name the monastery near Somerest where this occurred.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Glastonbury Abbey\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2. Glastonbury Abbey was said to have been founded by this man who planted his staff there.  The staff took root and became the Glastonbury thorn that would blossom every Christmas Eve.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Joseph of Arimathea\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  This king\'92s 1331 visit to the Abbey propted him to attempt a re-establishment of the Round Table by creating the Order of the Garter.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Edward III\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 10.  For the stated number of points, identify the following works of history's greatest composer, Ludwig von Beethoven.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  5:  Titles of the movements of this 1808 work include "By the brook" and "Awakening of happy feelings on arriving in the country".\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Symphony No. 6 in F or Pastoral Symphony\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  10:  The score for this bagatelle in A minor was discovered among the papers of Therese von Brunswick, who may have been the actual dedicatee of the piece.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Fur Elise or For Elise or For Eloise\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  15:  In 1822, a music publisher commissioned 50 composers, including Schubert and the 11-year-old Liszt, to write a variation apiece on his waltz.  Beethoven, however, composed 33 variations, and the work has become a masterpiece.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  The Diabelli variations\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 11.  FTP each answer the following concerning the early career of Andrew Jackson.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  Jackson caused conflict with Spain and Britain when, in 1818, he captured this Florida city in a reprisal against the Seminoles. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Pensacola\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2. He married this woman in 1791 in the erroneous belief that she had obtained a divorce from her husband.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Rachel Robards\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  He defended New Orleans successfully against what English commander in January 1815.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Edward Pakenham\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 12.  Given a lake, name any country which contains part of it FTP each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  Lake Kariba\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Zambia or Zimbabwe\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  Lake Van\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Turkey\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  Aral Sea\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Kazakhstan or Uzbekistan\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 13.  Identify these problems encountered with different types of telescopes FTP each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  In single-lens refracting telescopes, different colors of light have slightly different focal lengths, so that stars will appear to have fuzzy, rainbow-colored halos.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  chromatic aberration\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  In reflecting telescopes, different parts of a concave mirror might have different focal lengths, which creates a fuzzy image. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  spherical aberration\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  If a parabolic mirror is used in a reflecting telescope, spherical aberration is eliminated, but the telescope will no longer have a wide-angle view, since star images far from the center of the field of view are elongated, and look like tiny teardrops}{\f23 \fs20 .\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  coma\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 14.  Surprisingly, Matt Colvin didn't write this bonus.  Name these pre-Socratic philosophers FTP each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  He is said to have made Athens the center of philosophy and to have been Socrates' teacher; he rejected the four elements theory of Empedocles and posited instead an infinite number of unique particles of which all objects are composed. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Anaxagoras\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  This man believed the universal substance to be "the indefinite", or apeiron, but unlike his teacher Thales, he did not believe that a single element underlies all things.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Anaximander\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  An associate of Anaximander, he believed that air is the universal substance and that all things are made of air in different degrees of density.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Anaximenes\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 15.  FTP each, given a work by a psychologist, name the author.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  Walden Two\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Burrhus Frederic Skinner\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  On Personal Power\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Carl Rogers\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  The Neurotic Personality of Our Time\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Karen Horney\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 16.  FTP each, answer the following concerning the English Civil War.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  Edward Coke helped to draft this 1628 document which declared four principles, including no taxes without Parliament's consent and no quartering of soldiers.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Petition of Right\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  Acting on orders of the army council, in 1648 he expelled 143 members of Parliament on the grounds that they were loyalists.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Thomas Pride\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  After Pride's Purge, what was left of Parliament sentenced and beheaded the king for treason.  What was the name given to this parliament?\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  the Rump Parliament\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 17.  Given a work by a metaphysical poet, name the author FFP each and a five point bonus for all correct.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  "Horatian Ode"\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Andrew Marvell\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  Silex Scintillans\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Henry Vaughan\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  Holy Sonnets\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  John Donne\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 4.  \'93The Collar\'94\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  George Herbert\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5.  \'93Davideis\'94\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \tab Answer:  Abraham Cowley\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 18.  Time for an old ACF favorite:  name the Nobel laureate in physics from the citation FTP each.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  for the discovery of pulsars\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Antony Hewish (do not accept Christopher Hewett)\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  for his fundamental research into quantum mechanics, especially for his statistical interpretation of the wave function\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Max Born\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  for his discovery of spontaneous radioactivity\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Antoine Henri Becquerel\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 19.  30-20-10, name the author from works.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  Mind Breaths and Ankor Wat\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  Reality Sandwiches and Empty Mirror\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  Howl and Kaddish\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Allen Ginsberg\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 20.  19th century American sculpture isn't just Daniel Chester French and Frederic Remington.  Identify these other sculptors for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  5:  Born in Dublin of French descent, this man redesigned the gold $10 and $20 pieces in addition to creating the Admiral David Farragut and the Henry Adams memorials.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Augustus Saint-Gaudens\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2. 10:  He created an bust of Andrew Jackson in 1835, but is best known for his Greek Slave, a statue of a nude female figure which brought him international fame.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Hiram Powers\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  15:  Daughter of a Chippewa mother and African-American father, she was encouraged by William Lloyd Garrison.  In 1865, she moved to Rome and created works like Forever Free and The Death of Cleopatra, but mysteriously disappeared around 1880. \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Edmonia Lewis\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 21.  Name the college attended by these athletes from various sports on a 10-5 basis.\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 1.  10:  Ben Crenshaw, Calvin Schiraldi\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  Earl Campbell, James Brown\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  University of Texas\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 2.  10:  Chris Woodruff, Melvin Stewart\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  Chamique Holdsclaw, Peyton Manning\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  University of Tennessee\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 3.  10:  Sal Bando, Phil Mickelson\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 5:  Mario Bennett, Danny White\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f23 \fs20 Answer:  Arizona State University}}