{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff4\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f51\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f54\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text 2;}{\s16\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
endnote text;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}}{\info{\title The epigraph, taken from Ovid, refers to the same mythological character as the last line, which reads: "Old father, old artifi}
{\author Oski Bear}{\operator Kelly McKenzie}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy27\hr15\min35}{\revtim\yr2002\mo10\dy28\hr23\min18}{\version3}{\edmins4}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3648}{\nofchars20798}{\*\company TSW Demo}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0
\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20 ACF Fall 2002
\par Questions by Berkeley A (Jeff Hoppes, Jon Pennington, and Seth Teitler, with guest contributor Ross Ritterman) and South Carolina (Vernon Davenport)
\par 
\par TOSSUPS
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 1. He claimed to be related to Carlotta, the wife of Emperor Maximilian, and dabbled in cannibali
sm, recommending women\rquote s brains in vinaigrette as a tasty meal. His first important work, \'93Creation\'94, was typical of his style, which depicted simplified figures in crowded, shallow spaces. Living at \'93The Blue House\'94
, where he served as host to an exiled Trotsky, his depiction of Lenin led to the destruction of his fresco \'93Man at the Crossroads\'94. The husband of Freda Kahlo, FTP, who was this great Mexican muralist?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: Diego }{\b\f0\fs20 Rivera
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 2. The Gibbs paradox deals with a faulty derivation of this quantity wh
ich erroneously suggests it is not an extensive variable. For a monatomic ideal gas, its value is given by the Sackur-Tetrode equation, while for a black hole it is proportional to the surface area of the event horizon. In general it is equal to Boltzmann
'
s constant times the natural logarithm of the number of accessible states. According to the Second Law of Thermodynamics, it always increases in irreversible processes. Proposed by Rudolf Clausius and symbolized S, FTP, what is this measure of the disorde
r in a system?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul entropy
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\keep\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
3. As a state representative from Bridgeport, he introduced an 1879 anti-birth control law that the Supreme Court overturned in }{\i\f0\fs20 Griswold v. Connecticut}{\f0\fs20 .  He often played host to the elite of 19}{\f0\fs20\super th}{\f0\fs20 
 century cultural life at his Oriental estate Iranistan. The self-styled \'93Prince of Humbugs\'94, his rise to fame began with his purchase of John Scudder\rquote 
s American Museum, which he transformed into a forum for his promotions, including Charles S. Stratton, who he dubbed Tom Thumb. Known for organizing Jenny Lind\rquote 
s tour of America, FTP, who is this promoter known for the circus he ran with James Bailey?
\par \tab Answer: Phineas Taylor }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Barnum}{\b\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 4. At one point the protagonist of this novel is forced to kill the rascal Giletti, which soon leads him 
into an affair with the actress Marietta Valsera. In his youth he joined the cause of Napoleon, killing a Prussian officer at Waterloo, but he soon returned to Italy, where he was soon mentored by Count Mosca, the lover of his aunt, Gina Pietranera. Impri
s
oned for killing Giletti, he soon falls in love with Clelia Conti, who helps him escape, but Clelia and his new son soon die, prompting him to retire to the title monastery on the river Po. Centering on Fabrizio del Dongo, FTP, what is this novel which wi
th "The Red and the Black" is the masterpiece of Stendhal?
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\f0\fs20 Charterhouse of Parma}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 5. The capital of this country faces the Gulf of Gonave, and its chief mountain system, the Massif du Nord, reaches its maximum height at Mount La Selle in the so
utheast. Its main waterway is the Artibonite River, while its most fertile region is the coastal plain known as the Plaine du Nord, which is dangerously overpopulated. These same population problems have also led to the massive deforestation which its nei
ghbor to the east has avoided. With its capital at Port au Prince, FTP, what is this country which shares Hispanola with the Dominican Republic? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Haiti}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par 6. He tried to escape Manasseh\rquote s wrath by hiding in a hollow tree, but the king had it sawed in two.  His father Amoz was brother of King Amaziah, but he still took the side of the landless poor and said God would one day destroy the \'93
city of confusion\'94 that ruled the earth.  FTP, identify this prophet and namesake of an Old Testament book who lived through Sennacherib\rquote s attack and heralded the coming of the Messiah.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Isaiah}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
7. In discussing non-ideal gases, his name is given to the temperature at which the second virial coefficient multiplying the density vanishes. He showed that flames req
uire air, and that sound does not travel in a vacuum. These facts appear in his 1660 work, }{\i\f0\fs20 The Spring of the Air and Its Effects}{\f0\fs20 
, which discusses his experiments using an air pump he designed with the help of his assistant Robert Hooke. FTP name this Englishman whose law states that for an ideal gas at constant temperature, the product of pressure and volume is constant.
\par \tab Answer: Robert}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Boyle}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 8. This author of the plays \'93The Confidential Clerk\'94 and \'93The Elder Statesman\'94
 wrote fan letters to Groucho Marx and kept a picture of him on his mantle beside Yeats and Paul Valery.  His second volume of poetry, \'93Ara vos prec\'94, carries his early cynicism to extremes, as seen in works like \'93Gerontion\'94
 and the Sweeney poems, while his conversion to Anglicanism in the late 1920s is reflected in his late poems, including \'93Journey of the Magi\'94, \'93Ash Wednesday\'94, and \'93Four Quartets\'94
. FTP, name this poet probably best known for his long poem \'93The Waste Land\'94. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: Thomas Stearns }{\b\f0\fs20 Eliot}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
9. Their gods included Illapa, the god of thunder, Mamaquilla, a moon goddess, and Viracocha, the great creator. Lesser powers were "huacas," spirits that inhabited natural objects such as rocks and mountains. None of them could save Huayna Capac from sma
llpox in 1527, or prevent civil war between his sons Huascar and Atahualpa. FTP, name this empire centered on Cuzco which was conquered by the forces of Francisco Pizarro.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\ul Inca}{\b\f0  }{\f0 empire
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par 10. One founder was inspired by his attendance at lectures by E
hrenfels on recognizing transposed melodies. Based on concepts such as pragnanz, closure, and the constancy phenomenon, the legitimatacy of this school of thought was buttressed by studies of problem solving among the apes of Tenerife. It began as a react
ion to Wundtian structuralism and later targeted behaviorism, arguing that a complex stimulus can't be broken down into atomistic thought units or stimulus-response components. Founded by Koffka, K\'f6
hler, and Wertheimer, FTP name this school of psychology focused mainly on perceptual phenomena such as the phi phenomenon, whose name is German for \'93whole\'94.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Gestalt}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\f0\fs20 psychology
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
11. When a Sicilian tyrant tried to force the names of his associates from him, he bit off a piece of his tongue and spat it at his tormentors. The son of Teleutagoras, Plato said he was \'93tall and fair\'94
 and about age 40 at the time of his three-way conversation with Socrates and Parmenides. Using arguments like the \'93millet seed pile\'94, he argued for belief in the \'93one\'94 argued for by
 Parmenides, at the same time using arguments like the moving columns and the arrow to refute his opponents. FTP, name this philosopher known for attacking the concepts of motion and change with his paradoxes.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Zeno }{\f0\fs20 of Elea
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 12. Nicholas Cage and Bi
ll Gates are major collectors of the remains of these creatures, whose Paradoxides harlani version grew to a length of 18 inches. Their compound eyes, the oldest visual system known, were used for hunting and were easily preserved because each was a calci
te rod. They consisted of a thorax, to which was attached a head region called a cephalon and a tail region called a pyrgidium. FTP, what were these arthropods of the Cambrian Period named for their three body divisions?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Trilobites
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 13. Orde Wingate
 helped him organize an army of liberation, after which he was guarded around the clock by lions and cheetahs. Establishing himself as a progressive reformer as governor of Sidamo and Harer provinces, he soon overthrew his rival Lij Yasu, and was crowned 
emperor of his country after the death of the Empress Zauditu in 1930. Forced out of power by Marxist elements in 1974, he had earlier been forced into exile with the invasion by Italy in 1936. FTP, who was this emperor of Ethiopia?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Haile}{\f0\fs20  Selassie I (or Ras Tafari or Ras Makonnen)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 14. The section entitled \'93Dorabella\'94 simulates the hesitancy of speech of a lady named Miss Penny, while \'93B.G.N.\'94
 contains a famous cello solo. The 11}{\f0\fs20\super th}{\f0\fs20  part was inspired by a swimming bulldog; the 5}{\f0\fs20\super th}{\f0\fs20  paid tribute to the son of Matthew Arnold; and the 14}{\f0\fs20\super th}{\f0\fs20 
 depicted the composer himself. Some have proposed }{\i\f0\fs20 Auld Lang Syne }{\f0\fs20 as the \'93hidden\'94 theme indicated to be in it by the composer, who achieved his first success with the work. FTP, what is this set of variations on an origin
al theme of Edward Elgar, named for their inscrutable nature?
\par \tab Answer: the }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Enigma Variations}{\f0\fs20  (prompt on }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Variations on an Original Theme)}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
15. Early in his life, he worships the Indian Gray Beaver as a god, but is soon separated from his mother Kiche and ends up under the control of the coward Beauty Smith, who turns him into a professional fighter. Living under the credo \'93eat or be eaten
\'94, he experiences success until a fight with a bulldog who is impervious to his slashing attacks. Saved from death by Weedon Scott, he is domesticated, and later saves Weedon\rquote 
s father from an escaped convict. FTP, who is this wolf, the title character of the companion novel to \'93The Call of the Wild\'94?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 White Fang}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 16. One source claims that these creatures laid agate e
ggs, while another holds that a poisoned liquid will change color if served in a cub made for its claws. Although they waged war with the Amazons, a better known conflict is their frequent strife with the Arimaspians, who frequently raided their mines and
 stole their gold. FTP, what were these mythical monsters with the body of a lion and head and wings of an eagle?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 griffins}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 17. 
The last of the artist's submissions to the Salon, it was first shown there in 1882. A bowl with tangerines rests near a bottle with the Bass Ale label in the bottom right corner, while a pair of legs in yellow stockings and green shoes is seen in the top
 
left corner. The appearance of the central figure is echoed in the champagne bottles near her right hand, while a slanted mirror behind the central woman reveals a gentleman customer. Set in a famous Parisian nightclub, FTP name this Eduoard Manet paintin
g.
\par \tab Answer: A}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Bar at the Folies-Bergere}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
18. It is the only planet with four satellites within its Roche limit, and it radiates 2.6 times more heat than it receives from the sun, producing a turbulent atmosphere home to a continually shifting series of streaks dubbed \'93the Scooter\'94
.  Also known for two large dark ovals known as the \'93Small Dark Spot\'94 and \'93Great Dark Spot\'94, Voyager 2 discovered a number of new satellites, including Thalassa, Despina, Larissa, and Proteus. FTP, what is this planet orbited by Ner
eid and Triton, usually the eighth planet from the sun?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Neptune
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20\cf1\kerning28 
19. The victors in this battle failed to follow up with an assault on Dorchester Heights, rendering their previous efforts pointless. Israel Putnum held the namesake location, but the
 fighting revolved around a nearby spot ordered fortified by General Artemis Ward. William Howe then led a series of assaults on the colonial forces, and after three days of heavy losses took the field, but only after colonial ammunition ran so low that C
olonel William Prescott ordered his troops not to fire until they saw the whites of the enemy\rquote s eyes. FTP, what was this 1775 battle actually fought at Breed\rquote s Hill?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\cf1\kerning28 Bunker Hill}{\f0\fs20\cf1\kerning28  (accept Breed\rquote s Hill until the end)
\par 
\par }{\f0\fs20 
20. At one point the protagonist is taken in by the Reverend St. John Rivers, who she soon learns is her cousin. As a child she spent ten years with her hateful aunt-in-law Mrs. Reed of Gateshead Hall, but experienced happiness at Lowood School, where she
 
soon became a teacher. Taking a job as governess of Adela Varens, she moved to Thornfield Manor, where she eventually agreed to marry her employer, Edward Rochester, only to discover on their wedding day the secret of his marriage to Bertha Mason, who he 
had kept hidden on the third floor. FTP, what is this novel, the best known work by Charlotte Bronte?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Jane Eyre}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
21. Their namesake features can be described with the density-wave theory developed by Lin and Shu. In 1920, before telescopes capable 
of resolving these objects were developed, Shapley and Curtis debated their nature. Fischer and Tully discovered that they obey a velocity-luminosity relation similar to the Faber-Jackson law for ellipticals. In about one-third, the arms extend from a bar
-shaped center. The Whirlpool, Andromeda, and Milky Way are all examples of, FTP, what type of galaxy named for its shape?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul spiral}{\f0\fs20  galaxy}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\f0\fs20 (accept }{\b\f0\fs20\ul barred spiral}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\f0\fs20 galaxy before "bar-shaped center")
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 22. He had affairs with wives of his generals Gates a
nd Biddle and may have caught a fatal chill leaving the house of a mistress.  He refused to visit France because he couldn\rquote 
t master the language and inherited a plantation named after his brother Lawrence's commander against the Spanish in the West Indies, Admiral Vernon.  FTP, name this man, the first president of the U.S.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: George _Washington_
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20 ACF Fall 2002
\par Questions by Berkeley A (Jeff Hoppes, Jon Pennington, and Seth Teitler, with guest contributor Ross Ritterman) and South Carolina (Vernon Davenport)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs20 
\par BONUSES
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par 1. 5-10-15, answer these questions from Norse myth.
\par 5-Hel agreed to restore Balder to life if every living creature would weep for him.  Only the giantess Thokk refused, because she was this evil trickster god in disguise.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Loki}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 10-Although Thor almost caught this creature while fishing, it got away, and will return to kill Thor at Ragnarok. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Midgard Serpent}{\f0\fs20  or }{\b\f0\fs20 Jormungandr}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 15-This son of Odin will avenge Odin\rquote s death by tearing Fenris Wolf apart with his bare hands at Ragnarok.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Vidar}{\f0\fs20  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par 2. Identify these vitamins FTPE.
\par 1. (10 points) Pernicious anemia results from deficiency of this vitamin which can only be absorbed in the presence of a glycoprotein known as the \'93intrinsic factor\'94. It is required for normal production of red blood cells.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 B12}{\f0\fs20  or }{\b\f0\fs20 cobalamin}{\f0\fs20 
\par 2. (10 points) One form is present in green leaves, while the other is produced by the action of E. coli.  Deficiency leads to excessive bleeding, and it is usually given to pregnant women so infants will have enough prothrombin to stop hemorrhaging.

\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 K}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
3. (10 points) Chicken eggs will not hatch if deficient in this substance, which can be seen as a yellow tinge in egg white.  It is easily destroyed by light and deficiency leads to skin lesions and photophobia in humans.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 B2 or Riboflavin
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f0\fs20\lang1040\langfe1033\langnp1040 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 3. Name the following from Japanese history between the 12th and 19th centuries, FTPE.

\par 10) With a name meaning "great holders of private land," these feudal lords rose to prominence as leaders of the samurai class.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul daimyo}{\f0\fs20 
\par 10) Meaning "barbarian-subduing generalissimo," this was the title of the feudal military administrators who were the de facto rulers of Japan from the 12th to the 19th centuries.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul shogun
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) The daimyo rose to power during this shogunate founded when Takanju overthrew the Hojo in 1333.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Ashikaga}{\f0\fs20  (or Muromachi)}{\f0\fs20\ul 
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 4. Name these Charles Dickens works FTPE. 
\par 1. Mr. Murdstone sends the title character to work in a wine warehouse, but he is rescued by his great-aunt Betsey Trotwood.  After serving as an apprentice to Mr. Wickfield, the hero becomes a successful author.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 David Copperfield}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. A penniless orphan and his sister Kate are at the mercy of their miserly uncle, Ralph.  The hero flees to London, meets up with the 
saintly Cheeryble brothers and marrys an heiress.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Nicholas Nickleby}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. Dickens got his start in fiction with this collection of about 60 tales which the subtitle indicates are \'93Illustrative of Every-Day Life and Every-Day People
\'94. Its popularity was due in part to the clever illustrations by George Cruikshank.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Sketches by \'93Boz\'94}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par 5. Name these composers from works and examples of their lunacy F15PE. You\rquote ll get 10 points if you need better known works.
\par 1. (15 points) He got many ideas from his imaginary friends Florestan and Eusebius, feared metal keys and died in an insane asylum. Works include Kreisleriana, Woman\rquote s Love and Life, and Papillons. 
\par (10 points) Better known works include the \'93Rhenish\'94 Symphony and \'93Spring\'94 Symphony.
\par \tab Answer: Robert }{\b\f0\fs20 Schumann}{\f0\fs20 
\par 2. (15 points) He composed in a hot room while wearing a silk gown, refused to conduct Mendelssohn without wearing gloves and threatened critics with physical violence.  Works include the Faust Overture and the opera \'93The Fairies\'94.
\par (10 points) Other operas include \'93Das Rheingold\'94 and \'93Lohengrin\'94
\par \tab Answer: Richard }{\b\f0\fs20 Wagner}{\f0\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 6. Stuff about water molecules FTPE.
\par 10) The high specific heat of water, as well as its expansion upon freezing, can be explained by the presence of these weak intermolecular bonds.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul hydrogen}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\f0\fs20 bond
\par 10) According to VSEPR theory, what is the predicted molecular geometry of the water molecule?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul bent
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) Water molecules have this type of hybridized orbital, which has a predicted bond angle of about 109 degrees, close to the observed value of 105 degrees.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul sp}{\b\f0\fs20\ul\super 3}{\f0\fs20  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 7. Answer these questions about a British artist FTPE.
\par 1. This landscape painter\rquote s detailed knowledge of the seasons and weather patterns made such works as Hampton Heath extremely lifelike.  He usually painted his native Suffolk.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: John }{\b\f0\fs20 Constable
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. This John Constable painting shows the titular object fording a stream amid a sweeping vista of clouds and trees.  
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: The }{\b\f0\fs20 Haywain 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. This two-word French term designated paintings created outdoors, rather than in the studio. Many of Constable\rquote s works are examples. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer}{\b\f0\fs20 : }{\b\f0\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 Plein Air}{\f0\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 8. Given a description of its role in the Reformation, name the German city, FTPE.
\par 10) Luther posted his ninety-five theses on the church door here in 1517.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\ul Wittenberg
\par }{\f0 10) John of Leyden, a Dutch tailor, imposed a revolutionary "government of the saints" on this city before orthodoxy was forcibly imposed in 1535.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\ul Munster}{\f0 
\par 10) The peace signed here in 1555 ended the war between Protestant German Princes and the Emperor, enforcing the doctrine of }{\i\f0 cuius regio, eius religio .}{\f0 Earlier, Melanchthon drew up its namesake \'93Confession\'94
 stating the essentials of Lutheran thought.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\ul Augsburg}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 9. Name these Mark Twain works FTPE.
\par In the best-known version of this posthumous tale, the diabolical Philip Traum imparts twisted knowledge to innocent Austrian boys and completely destroys their moral fiber.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: The }{\b\f0\fs20 Mysterious Stranger}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 The title character, whose real name is David, sorts out the switch of a slave boy and a rich white couple\rquote s baby and solves a murder mystery.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Pudd\rquote nhead Wilson}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 It was written when Twain\rquote 
s 1882 steamship journey convinced him that the titular way of life was nearly finished.  It depicts the adventures of a cub-pilot learning that the title river is as dangerous as it is beautiful.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Life on the Mississippi
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 10. Answer the following questions about anthropological hoaxes FTPE:
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
10) Derek Freeman argued that Margaret Mead was the victim of a practical joke played by two native girls when she published this book about adolescent development in the South Pacific.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Coming of Age in Samoa}{\f0\fs20 
\par 10) In the early 1970s, anthropologists flocked to the Philippines to find this Stone Age tribe discovered on the island of Mindanao, but in reality it was a hoax perpetrated by the government of Ferdinand Marcos.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Tasaday}{\f0\fs20\ul 
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) Originally called }{\i\f0\fs20 eanthropus dawsoni}{\f0\fs20 , this archaeological specimen discovered in England later proved to be a modern skull attached to a fossilized orangutang jaw.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Piltdown Man}{\f0\fs20\ul 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
11. Name the following physicists who conducted experiments on the photoelectric effect, FTPE.
\par 10) This German physicist first observed the photoelectric effect in 1887 in the course of experiments confirming Maxwell\rquote s theory. 
\par \tab Answer: Heinrich Rudolph}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Hertz
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) He spent 10 years conducting experiments on the photoelectric effect which substantiated Einstein's views, in the process measuring Planck's constant to within 0.5%. He is more famous for his oil-drop experiment which determ
ined the electron charge.
\par \tab Answer: Robert Andrews}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Millikan
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) With Meyer, he conducted important experiments confirming the lack of time lag in the photoelectric effect, but is more famous for an experiment conducted with Stern which demonstrated the quantization of angular momentum.
\par \tab Answer: Walter}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Gerlach
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 12. Name these pharaohs of Egypt FTPE.
\par 10) This pharaoh of the Fourth Dynasty ordered the building of a great pyramid at Giza, one of the wonders of the ancient world.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Khufu}{\f0\fs20  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Cheops
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) Succeeding his father Ramses I, this pharaoh established the greatness of the Ramessid dynasty, paving the way for the successes of his son Ramses II by regaining Egypt\rquote s northern territories.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Seti I}{\f0\fs20 
\par 10) One of Alexander the Great's generals, he founded a namesake dynasty in Egypt, and made Alexandria his capital.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Ptolemy}{\b\f0\fs20  I}{\f0\fs20  or }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Soter
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 13. Name the following about an author and his work, FTPE.
\par 1. (10 points) Christopher Newman\rquote s engagement to Claire de Cintre is halted when her family resists the union, but when Valentin Bellegarde reveals that Claire\rquote s mother killed her husband, Newman refuses to use the information against her.

\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: The }{\b\f0\fs20 American}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. (10 points) Name the author of }{\i\f0\fs20 The American}{\f0\fs20 , also known for }{\i\f0\fs20 Daisy Miller}{\b\i\f0\fs20 .}{\f0\fs20 
\par \tab Answer: Henry }{\b\f0\fs20 James}{\f0\fs20 
\par 3. (10 points) In this Henry James work, the title figure\rquote s parents divorce when she is six.  Her stepparents invite the little girl to live with them, but Miss Overmore soon sends the girl away again.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 What Maisie Knew}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 14. Name the following monsters from Greek myth FTPE.
\par 10) This monster committed suicide after Oedipus successfully answered its riddle.
\par \tab Answer: the}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Sphinx}{\f0\fs20 
\par 10) One of the labors of Heracles was to steal the man-eating oxen of this three-bodied, three-headed giant.\tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Geryon
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) Artemis sent this beast to ravage the kingdom of Oeneus. Atalanta was the first to wound it, and it was killed by Oeneus's son Meleager.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Calydonian Boar}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 15. Things related to cell membranes, FTPE.
\par 10) A cell membrane is composed of a bilayer of these molecules, which possess hydrophilic heads and hydrophobic tails.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\ul phospholipid}{\b\f0 s}{\f0 
\par 10) Whiteley and Berg demonstrated in 1974 that some membrane proteins have surfaces exposed both to the cell exterior and to the cytoplasm, confirming this model of the membrane's structure.
\par \tab Answer: the}{\b\f0  }{\b\f0\ul fluid mosaic}{\b\f0  }{\f0 model
\par 10) One such group of protein molecules functions as a "pump" for two positively charged ions. Name either.
\par \tab Answers: }{\b\f0\ul sodium}{\f0  or }{\b\f0\ul potassium
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 16. Name these Roman emperors FTPE.
\par 1. Alarmed by a Dacian revolt, he sent Senator Decius to crush it, but Decius was proclaimed emperor and returned to kill him.  Sometimes he is identified as the first Christian emperor.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: _Philip_ the Arabian or Marcus Julius }{\f0\fs20\ul Philippus}{\f0\fs20  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 2. He fell ill on a journey and was taken to his father\rquote 
s house, where he died in the same room in which he was born.  He preferred to be called Princeps, but a grateful Senate gave him the position of imperium maius after his general Agrippa defeated Antony and Cleopatra at Actium.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: Caesar }{\f0\fs20\ul Augustus}{\f0\fs20  or Gaius }{\f0\fs20\ul Octavius}{\f0\fs20  or }{\f0\fs20\ul Octavian
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 3. This son of the general Orestes is remembered almost solely because he was the last western Roman emperor, deposed by Odoacer in 476.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 Answer: }{\f0\fs20\ul Romulus Augustulus}{\f0\fs20  II\line 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 17. Name these ancient Greek plays with female title characters FTPE.
\par 10) In this Euripides play, the title character kills her children after finding out that her husband has abandoned her for another woman.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Medea
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) In this Sophocles play, Creon sentences the title character to death for burying her brother Polyneices.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Antigone}{\f0\fs20 
\par 10) In this play, Danaus and his fifty daughters are granted protection by King Pelasgus from King Aegyptus, usurper of the throne of Egypt, who demands that the daughters marry his fifty sons.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\f0\fs20 Suppliant Women}{\f0\fs20  or The }{\b\f0\fs20 Suppliants}{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 18. FTPE, name the following about some geography.
\par 1. (10 points) One of the major rivers of North America, this river forms from the McNeil river headwaters and Lakes Atlin and Tagish, flowing 1980 miles across Canada and Alaska before entering the Bering Sea. (tributary Pelly river)
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Yukon }{\f0\fs20 River
\par 2. (10 points) Nome is on the northern shore of this sound where the Yukon enters the Bering Sea. It indents the west coast of Alaska for 120 miles.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Norton }{\f0\fs20 Sound
\par 3. (10 points) To the north of Norton Sound is this peninsula whose Cape Prince of Wales on the Bering Strait is the most westerly point of North America.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20 Seward }{\f0\fs20 Peninsula
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\fs20 
19. In early August, researchers presented new evidence confirming that portions of a 4.5 billion-year-old Martian meteorite were produced by bacteria on Mars. Answer the following FTPE.
\par 10) In June 2002, researchers using this spacecraft announced that they had found water ice under the surface of Mars, an important environmental component for the evolution of microbes.
\par \tab Answer: Mars}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Odyssey
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) The researchers focused on this iron oxide mineral with composition Fe}{\f0\fs20\sub 3}{\f0\fs20 O}{\f0\fs20\sub 4}{\f0\fs20 , which some bacteria arrange into chai
ns within their cells to form compasses, which help the bacteria locate sources of food and energy.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0\fs20\ul magnetite
\par }{\f0\fs20 10) In 2001, this spacecraft observed magnetized stripes in the crust of Mars, which showed that a strong magnetic field existed in the planet's early history.
\par \tab Answer: Mars}{\b\f0\fs20  }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Global Surveyor
\par }{\f0\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 20. Name these figures from the Watergate scandal, FTPE.
\par 10) The North Carolina senator who presided over the congressional investigation.
\par \tab Answer: Sam J. }{\b\f0\ul Ervin}{\b\f0 , Jr.}{\f0 
\par 10) Nixon's desire to fire this special prosecutor prompted the "Saturday Night Massacre."
\par \tab Answer: Archibald}{\b\f0  }{\b\f0\ul Cox}{\f0 
\par 10) Nixon's press secretary, who in June 1972 called the Watergate break-in a "third-rate burglary attempt."
\par \tab Answer: Ronald L.}{\b\f0  }{\b\f0\ul Ziegler}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par 21. Identify the story from clues, 30-20-10.
\par 30) The story is read by Douglas from a manuscript after Griffin tells a gruesome story on Christmas eve to a circle of friends.
\par 20) The central action of the story results from the machinations of Peter Quint and Miss Jessel.
\par 10) Young Miles and Flora are haunted by ghosts in this Henry James story.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\f0\fs20\ul Turn of the Screw
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx-720\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs20 
\par }}