{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f17\fnil\fcharset134\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}SimSun{\*\falt ??};}
{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt ?? ??};}{\f28\fnil\fcharset134\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@SimSun;}{\f29\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}
{\f34\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f35\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f37\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f50\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text 2;}}{\info
{\title ACF Fall Tournament}{\author Student}{\operator Kelly McKenzie}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy27\hr15\min59}{\revtim\yr2002\mo10\dy27\hr15\min59}{\printim\yr2002\mo9\dy27\hr16\min13}{\version2}{\edmins5}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3583}{\nofchars20427}
{\*\company Student Technology Centers Indiana University}{\nofcharsws25085}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\b\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 ACF Fall Tournament
\par }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Tossups by Indiana University (Wesley Mathews)
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 TOSSUPS}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 1. \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
Death by hanging was the sentence handed down by Judge Joseph Gary to seven of eight men \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
brought to trial over this incident. Matthias Degan and seven others died from a related incident stemming from demonstrations on Randolph Street for an eight-hour workday. Nine fatalities resulted from this event, one of which was a shooting death taking
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
place in front of the McCormick Harvester Plant. Three surviving convicts were pardoned by Governor John Altgeld in 1893 for want of a fair trial. FTP, name this riot of May 4, 1876 in which a bomb thrown by anarchists in a Chicago Plaza was used to discr
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 e\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 dit the Knights of Labor.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Haymarket Square}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  Riot
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 2. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Their initiates undergo a ceremony meant to bind student and teacher called the ahd, and full members are given the title of murid and expected to begin memorization of the }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Mathnawi}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
. The first order \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
was formed in Baghdad in 1166 by Abd al-Qadir al-Jilani, who espoused their central belief that poverty is needed to be in relation to God. All orders are united by celebration of the dhikr, or invocation of God, which for the Mevlevi order of Konya invol
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 v\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 es a unique form of exaltation. FTP, name these mendicant members of Sufism, known for their whirling.
\par }\pard \qj \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 dervish}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 es (or }{\fs20\ul 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 fakir}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 . Prompt on Sufism.)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 3. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Like several other organs, this organ is restrained by the peritoneum. Attached to the peritoneum below 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
the capsule are the two ligaments that hold its protective serous and fibroelastic coats in place and allow this organ to expand and contract after digestion. Below the hilum, one of its coats reflects inward into branching sheets that radiate the trabecu
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 l\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ae that separate its pulp-containing areolae, where the reticulum connects this organ to the lienal artery and allows it to fulfill its primary function. Made up of red and white pulp, in times of bone marrow breakdown it produces red blood cells. FTP, na
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 m\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 e this primary filtering organ for the blood.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 spleen}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {4. On a number of occasions the poet refers to the title objects as keeping \'93a sort of Runic rhyme\'94. Initially they foretell a 
\'93world of merriment\'94, but are soon described as \'93ghouls\'94 recounting a \'93tale of terror\'94
. In four stanzas of increasing length marked by alliteration, repetition, and assonance, they symbolize childhood, marriage, maturity, and finally death. FTP, what is this poem by Edgar Allan Poe?
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b Bells}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 5. \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
His first work accused\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0  his colleagues of \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 mental gymnastics\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
 for rejecting mathematics to unify economic analysis. As consultant to the Committee of Economic Development in 1958, he answered the question \'93\loch\f0 What is the most important problem to be faced by the U.S. in the next 2
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 0\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0  years\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0  with \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 inflation.\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
 Some of his recent works have attempted to describe Keynesian Economics with linear programs. Remembered for his \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 cost-push\'94\loch\f0  inflationary theory, FTP, name this co-author with Nordhaus of }{
\i\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Economics: An Introductory Analysis}{\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 , a pro\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
fessor at MIT who won the Nobel Prize for Economics in 1970.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: Paul }{\ul\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Samuelson}{
\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 6. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Much was achieved under its first leader, Sir Eric Drummond, including a successful 15 year administration of the Saar Region and the settling of the dispute over the Alan\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
d Islands, but it experienced failure when Poland failed to abide by its decision in the Vilnius dispute. Of the 26 articles in its covenant, article X caused the most trouble for its requirement that members defend each other from aggression, leading to 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 o\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 pposition from Henry Cabot Lodge and the Senate\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 
s refusal to allow the United States to join. Established in the Versailles Peace Settlement, FTP, what was this predecessor to the United Nations?
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 League of Nations}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 7. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 One of its characters is a finic\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ky schoolmaster who suggests reading lists of all of his students from the past 50 years to alleviate boredom. Some excitement ensues when a fire nearly destroys the town and Doctor Chebutykin is too inebriated to heal the wounded, but boredom returns aft
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 e\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
r Tuzenbakh is killed in a duel and Vershinin is forced to leave with the regiment, leaving Masha to face her marriage to Kulygin and Irina to continue dreaming about Moscow. FTP, name this play about the Prozorov family by Anton Chekhov.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 The }{\i\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Thre\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 e Sisters}{
\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  or }{\i\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Tri Sestry}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 8. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Taught by his musicologist father, this performer gave his first public concert in Paris at the age of 6. Studing under Leonard Rose at Julliard, he is known for his many groundbreaking recording with the pianist Emanuel Ax, and re
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ceived the prestigious Avery Fisher Prize in 1978, although in recent years he has professed a desire to give up his most famous instrument for the accordian. Known for his wide reportoire and combination of technical virtuosity and lyrical expression, FT
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 P\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 , who is this famous cellist?
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Yo-yo }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Ma}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 9. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
A gravitational one that may cause a brief 2% reduction in weight is generated in the Podkletnov Effect. A magnetic variety is produced by energetic solar shockwaves that cause rapid flu\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ctuations in the Van Allen Belts over a period of minutes. In classical mechanics, the equation that describes it is the result of multiplying both sides of Newton\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 
s Second Law by delta-t. FTP, name this measure of a force acting over a period of time equ\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 l to the change in momentum between two velocities, symbolized J. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 impulse}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 10. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 In this country\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 
s south, the forearc basin and coast range that frames its central valley are partially flooded by the Corcovado Gulf and Moraleda Canal, leaving islands li\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ke Gran Guaiteca that make up its Los Chonos Archipelago. Its longest rivers are the Baker and its only perennial stream, the Loa, both located in the north, whose nitrate and copper wealth is tapped by the cities of Chiquicamata and La Serena. Its chief 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 p\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 orts include Iquique, Coquimbo and Puerto Montt. FTP, name this country extending from the Atacama Desert to Tierra del Fuego, with capital at Santiago.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Chile}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 11. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Its participants initially denied complicity in incidents like the Lari Massacre and the\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
 murder of loyalist Chief Waruhu. In response, the local government launched Operation Anvil, imprisoning almost a third of the male population of the offending clan. Its power was weakened after the arrest of Dedan Kimathi and the Hola Massacre, but it e
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 v\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 entually succeeded with increased Kikuyu representation in the colonial legislature. FTP, name this rebellion against European settlers by a secret society in Kenya from 1952-1956. 
\par }\pard \qj \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\lang1036\langfe2052\langnp1036 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul\lang1036\langfe2052\langnp1036 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Mau Mau}{
\fs20\lang1036\langfe2052\langnp1036 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  Rebellion
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 12. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
A meeting with actor William Macready convinced\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  this writer to try his hand at stage writing, but his two published plays }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Strafford}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  and }{\i\fs20 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A Blot in the Scutcheon}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0  were not as successful as early poems like \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Count Gismond-Aix in Provence.\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
 A low point in his career was his Italian period, when poems like \'93\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Soliloquy in a Spanish Cloister\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0  and \'93\loch\f0 Porphyria\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 \hich\f0 s Lover\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
 sold badly, but his poetry is optimistic even after the 1861 death of his wife, when he included poems like \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Rabbi Ben Ezra\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0  and \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Caliban upon Setebos\'94\loch\f0  in his collection }{
\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Dramatis Personae}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 . FTP, name \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0 this poet known for dramatic monologues like \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Fra Lippo Lippi\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0  and \'93
\loch\f0 \hich\f0 My Last Duchess.\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Robert }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Browning}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 13. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Among the beliefs he set forth were the exercise of deifying virtues, which allow the fulfillment of human true nature, but not unification with \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
God. Fundamental changes in his early philosophy came about through his participation in the Eastern expedition of Gordian III, whom he followed to India. There, he first added eastern metaphysical considerations to the emanation creationist theory of Phi
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 l\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 o the Stoic, though the body of his beliefs most closely resemble another philosopher. A disciple of Ammonius Saccus, FTP, name this teacher of Porphyry whose }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Enneads}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  describe his development of Neoplatonism.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Plotinus}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 14. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Assuming the name Gagnrad, he\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  traveled to the hall of his rival Vafthrudnir, and defeated him in a duel of wits by asking about the words he whispered into his dying son\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 
s ear. He attempted to hang himself upon learning of his doom in Ragnarok. His search for knowledge began with a t\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 r\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ip to the Well of Wyrd, where its owner Mimir demanded an eye in exchange for a sip. FTP, name this Norse god of wisdom, the leader of the Aesir.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Odin}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 15. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
This scientist discovered butylene and the correct formula for ether. The son of a weaver who to\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ok charge of a Quaker school at age 12, much of his early work focused on studies of the atmosphere, where he developed his characteristic distrust of other scientists\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 
 work and obsession with detailed record-keeping by means of a scientific diary. Determ\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 i\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
ning that rain is due to changes in temperature, his interest in the atmosphere led to his studies in chemistry, detailed in his work \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 New System of Chemical Philosophy\'94\loch\f0 , where he deduced what would become known as Charles
\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0  Law, as well as the laws of mul\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 t\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 iple proportions and the law of partial pressures. FTP, who was this English chemist who proposed the theory of atoms?
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: John }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Dalton}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 16. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
He first attained a perception of spatial depth through his invention of the schiacciato technique, which he used f\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 or the bald }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Zuccone}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
, part of a series of prophets carved for the Campanile of his city. At about the same time, he worked on a famous scene for the Siena baptistery known as the }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Salome}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
 scene. His 1416 }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 St. George and the Dragon}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  shows his transition from got\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
hic to humanistic perspectivism, while his later residency at Padua after 1443 saw the completion of the San Antonio Altarpiece and the equestrian statue, the }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Gattamelatta}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
. FTP, name this early Renaissance Florentine sculptor who created the first large br\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 onze freestanding nude since classical times, known as }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 The Boy }{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
David.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Donatello}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  (accept: }{\fs20\ul 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Donati di Niccolo di Betto Bardi}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 )
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 17. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 "Shame to him who thinks evil of it" is the motto o\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
f this group whose membership consists of its country's sovereign, a prince, and 50 "knight companions". Founded in 1348, legend holds it was created after an incident during a dance between the Countess of Salisbury and Edward III, who put on an item of 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 c\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 lothing which had fallen off the Countess. Considered the highest honor in England, FTP, what is this English order of knights?
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Order of the }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Garter}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {18. At the end of this book the narrator\rquote s friend Carl gets him a job at a newspaper and he helps his 
friend Fillmore escape a suffocating marriage. At one point he does odd jobs for the eccentric Indian pearl salesman Mr. Nanantetee and befriends a follower of Gandhi, who he takes to a brothel. Earlier, he led a deliberately aimless life in Paris after l
eaving his wife Mona, and provided an explicit catalog of his sexual experiences with various prostitutes. FTP, what is this controversial book by Henry Miller?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b Tropic of Cancer}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 19. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
It frequently weathers into other minerals like margarite, zoisite, a\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
nd kyanite. Produced by the Verneuil Process, it has been largely replaced in industrial applications by synthetic materials like alumina. When mixed with iron oxides and other minerals it is known as emery, and its finer varieties include sapphire and ru
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 b\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 y. A naturally occurring aluminum oxide mineral with formula Al2 O3, FTP, what is this mineral whose Mohs hardness of 9 makes it the second hardest natural substance?
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Corundum}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  (prompt on early answer of ruby or sapphire)
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 20. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 In this battle, the oppos\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ing commanders set up camp on opposite sides of the Montmorency River. On July 30, grenadiers crossed Orleans Island and attempted to row towards the city, but were halted by submerged rocks and cut down while attempting to cross the Beauport Shore. After
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 relocating to Point Levis, the British general found a narrow, hidden path, which he used to secretly disembark 4,000 men on September 12, making possible the charge by Wolfe\hich\f0 \rquote 
\loch\f0 s men across the Plains of Abraham. FTP, name this decisive 1759 British victory\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 of the French and Indian War that saw the taking of a strategic site on the St. Lawrence River and the death
\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s of Wolfe and Montcalm.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Battle of }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Quebec}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
 (accept Plains of Abraham until mentioned)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 21. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A passage in which two dark figures are reclining sep\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
arates a crowd of onlookers who are obscured by shadow in the background of this painting, while a skylight not visible to the viewer illuminates the forehead of one of the central figures. On the left, a man behind a desk is writing on a piece of paper a
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 b\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ove a woman who raises her hands in a clawlike gesture to shield her view from the central action. Blood covers the fingers of the central figure, who stares out at the viewer, while four figures with scalpels at right concentrate on a naked form. FTP, na
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 m\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 e this painting by Thomas Eakins.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\i\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 The Gross Clinic}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\b\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 ACF Fall Tournament
\par }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Tossups by Indiana University (Wesley Mathews)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }{\b\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 BONUSES
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 1. \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
Name these English poets from lines they penned, FTPE.
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 A: \'93\loch\f0 Shall I compare thee to a summer\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 \hich\f0 s day?\'94
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: William }{\b\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Shakespeare}{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 B: \'93\loch\f0 Had we but world enough, and time, this coyness, lady, were \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 no crime\'94
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: Andrew }{\b\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Marvell}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 C: \'93\loch\f0 Heav\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 \hich\f0 
n is for thee too high / To know what passes there; be lowly wise: / Think only what concerns thee and thy being\'85\'94
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: John }{\b\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Milton}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 2. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Name the following about a country FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A. The Ngorongoro Crater is found in this country, which in 1974 designated the city of Dodoma as its new capital.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Tanzania
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0 B: The de facto seat of government of Tanzania is still this former capital and major port whose name means \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
haven of peace\'94\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Dar Es Salaam
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 C: This dry, treeless plain of Tanzania contains the world\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s largest concentration of wildebeest and gazelle.

\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Serengeti}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  Plain
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 3. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 This compound is derived from the action of ultraviolet light on 7-dehydrocholesterol. FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: N\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 ame this hormone still identified as a vitamin because of its historical misclassification.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Vitamin }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 D}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 -3 or chole}{\fs20\ul 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 calciferol}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  or }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 9-10 seco(5Z,7E)-5,7,10,(19) cholestatriene-3}{\f3\fs20\ul \loch\af3\dbch\af17\hich\f3 \'62}{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 -ol}{
\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 B: Vitamin D may also be manufactured in response to the secretion of th\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
is hormone, which is released in response to low levels of calcium in the blood.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 parathyroid}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  hormone or }{\fs20\ul 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 parathormone}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 C: Disorders such as colitis prevent the absorption of Vitamin D, causing this bone disease of in\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
fancy and childhood characterized by defective bone growth.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 rickets}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 4. \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
It rejects doctrines that claim truth can be reached through deductive reasoning in favor of constant certification of hypotheses. FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 A: Name this method of philosophy in which\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  the truth of a proposition is measured with experimental results.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 pragmatism}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 B: Pragmatism traces its name to an article published in }{\i\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Popular Science Weekly}{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  in 1878 by this founder of modern semiotics.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: Charles Sanders }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Pierce}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 C: Probably th\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
e most famous pragmatist was this radical empiricist who sought truth through conjunctive relations, and applied his theory to the human mind in his 1890 text }{\i\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Principles of Psychology}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 .
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: William }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 James}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 5. \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Identify the following tariffs from 20}{\super\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 th}{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  century
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  American History FTPE.
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 A. The popular name of this 1828 tariff indicated Southern outrage concerning its large increase of import duties, designed to appease northeastern manufacturers.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: Tariff of }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Abominations}{
\b\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
B: This tariff act was passed to secure protection for farm products by raising tariffs on industrial goods, undercutting the Emergency Tariff Act of 1921. It was sponsored by senators from Michigan and North Dakota. 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Fordney-McCumber}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  Tariff Act
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 C:\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
 A compromise between bills demanding high protective manufacturing goods tariffs and farm product tariffs, this tariff act signed by Herbert Hoover in 1930 brought rates to 58%, their highest rate in U.S. history, resulting in retaliatory tariff acts fro
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 m\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  other countries, worsening the depression.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Hawley-Smoot}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  Tariff Act
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 6. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 FTPE, provide the requested information about creatures from Greek myth.
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 1. (10 points) The first generation of these creatures were the offspring of Uranus and Gaia. Three of the\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 m, Brontes, Steropes, and Arges, helped Zeus overthrow the titans by forging Zeus\hich\f0 
\rquote \loch\f0  thunderbolts.
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Cyclopes}{\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 2. (10 points) The ghosts of Brontes, Steropes, and Arges haunted Mount Etna after Apollo killed them in revenge for Zeus\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0  killing of this he\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 aler for raising the dead.
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Asclepius}{\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 3. (10 points) Probably the most famous Cyclops was this son of Poseidon and the sea nymph Thoosa who imprisoned Odysseus and his crew in a cave in Sicily until Odysseus blinded him.
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Polyphemus}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 7. \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Name t
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 hese ancient Greek poets, FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 A: Often called the \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 father of Greek didactic poetry\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0 , this early Greek poet is known for his descriptions of mythology in the \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Theogeny\'94\loch\f0 
\hich\f0  and peasant life in the \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Works and Days\'94\loch\f0 .
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Hesiod}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 (os)
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 B: Best known for his lyr\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
ics on love and wine written for his patron Hipparchus, this native of Teos has also given his name to the meter he established, which was emulated until late Byzantine times. The melody of his \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 song\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
 later became that of \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 The Star Spangled Banner.\'94
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 : }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Anacreon
}{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 C; This poet\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 
s longest surviving work is an invocation to Aphrodite asking her for help with a woman she loved. She addressed most of her poems to her young students of music and poetry on Lesbos.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Sappho}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 8. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Each subshell of an atom can be 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
identified by a number and one of the letters s, p, d, or f. Given the last subshell currently occupied by electrons in an atom, name the next subshell that would be filled by additional electrons. For example, if I said 1s, you would say 2s.
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 1. (10 points\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 ) 4s
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 3d}{\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 2. (10 points) 3p
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 4s}{\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 3. (10 points) 6s
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 4f}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 9. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 FTSNOP, answer the following about a holy month.
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 1. (5 points) Beginning and ending when a trustworthy person declares before authorities to have seen the new moon, adherents of Islam are required to fast during the daylight hours during this month, the 9}{\fs20\super 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 th}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  of the year.
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Ramadan}{\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 2. (10 points) Tu\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0 rkish for \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 sugar feast\'94\loch\f0 , the end of Ramadan is celebrated by this feast which brings release from the month-long abstinence.
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Eid al-Fitr}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  (prompt on Feast of Fast Breaking)
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 3. (15 points) Generally considered to fall on the 27}{\fs20\super \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 th}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  night of Ramadan, t\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0 his night whose name means \'93
\loch\f0 \hich\f0 night of power\'94\loch\f0  commemorates the first revelation of the Koran. Many recognize it by spending the last ten days of Ramadan in seclusion.
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Laylat al-Qadr}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 10. Identify the following from the German Reformation FTPE.
\par A. Martin Luther refused to repudiate his writings at this 1521 meeting of the assembly of the Holy Roman Empire, according to tradition stating \'93Here I stand; I can do no other\'94.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\fs20\ul Diet of Worms}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 B: This inquisitor general of Poland preached three indulgence 
missions for the Teutonic Knights, one in which the objective was to raise money for the building of St. Peter\rquote s Church in Rome in 1517, arousing the ire of Martin Luther.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Johann }{\fs20\ul Tetzel}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 C: Led by Phillip of Hesse and John Frederick I of Saxony, thi
s association of principalities was formed to defend protestant subjects against Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. It was defeated at Muhlberg in 1547.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\fs20\ul Schmalkald}{\fs20 ic League
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 11. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Answer the following about a 19}{\fs20\super \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 th}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  century British novel, FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: Originally na\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 med Wilfrid, the title character of this novel is the son of Cedric the Saxon who is torn between his father\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 
s wish that he marry a Saxon heiress and his love for his father\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s ward, the Lady Rowena.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Ivanhoe}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 B. Name the author of }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Ivanhoe}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 .
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Walter }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Scott}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 C: The daughter of Isaac of York, she is in love with Ivanhoe and leaves England when he rejects her for Rowena.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Rebecca}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  the Jewess
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 12. \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
Answer the following about the equation p}{\super\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 2 }{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 + 2pq + q}{\super\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 2}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  = 1 FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 A: The equation is found in this law of genetics which holds that, under certain conditions, the ratio of dominant and recessive genes in a population tends to remain constant.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  (or Law)
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 B: The symbols p and q are defined \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
as the frequency of these dominant and recessive gene forms for a given trait. 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 allele}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 s (or }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 allelomorphs}{\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 )
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
C: One of the assumptions of the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium is that this process, the random fluctuation in the frequency of an allele resulti\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 ng from chance mating, is not occurring.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: random }{\ul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 genetic drift}{
\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 13. 
Its roof contains 176 sculptures, some of which are scenes from the Great Northern War, and with the Grand Cascade, Marly and Monplazir palace, it rounds out the landscape of Peterhof. FTPE:
\par A: Name this baroque palace facing the Neva River modeled on Versailles, designed as a residence for Empress Elizabeth I.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\fs20\ul Zimniy Dvorets}{\fs20  or }{\fs20\ul Winter Palace}{\fs20  
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 B: The Winter Palace contains part of this Russian state art museum that houses Rembrandt\rquote s }{\i\fs20 \'93Danae\'94}{\fs20  and Raphael\rquote s }{\i\fs20 
\'93Holy Family}{\fs20 .\'94
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: The }{\fs20\ul Hermitage}{\fs20  (accept: }{\fs20\ul Ermitazh}{\fs20 )
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
C: This architect who also designed the Tsarskoye Selo residence, Stroganov Palace and Smolny Monastery completed the Winter Palace in time for Catherine the Great to move in.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Bartolomeo Francesco }{\fs20\ul Rastrelli}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 14. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Answer the following about really old places and the people who study them:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: While curator of the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford, his discovery of the Minoan Palace at Knossos in 1903 brought Minoan civilization out\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  of mythology and into archaeology.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Sir Arthur }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Evans}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
B: In his later life, he was governor of Connecticut and a senator from 1925-33, but he will always be remembered for leading the 1911 expedition that rediscovered the cities of Viitcos and Macch\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 u Picchu.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Hiram }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Bingham}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
C: The first excavations of this city were attempted by Alexander Cunningham after brick-robbers carried off most of its remains in 1873. Its famous seals containing the Indus Script were discovered by Rai Bahadur Daya Ram S\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
ahni, who continued his work in the 1920\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Harappa}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 15. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Name these straits from the landmasses they separate FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: Corsica and Sardinia
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Strait of }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Bonifacio}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 B: North and South Islands, New Zealand
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Cook}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  Strait
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 C: Oman and Iran
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Strait of (H)}{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Ormuz}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 16. Its protagonist\rquote 
s career was influenced by his memory of watching a lobster devour a squid. FTPE:
\par A: Name this novel, the first in a trilogy centering on Frank Algernon Cowperwood, a character whose rise to affluence is halted by a stock market crash and a conviction for unlawful transactions.
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\i\fs20\ul Financier}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 B: Name the author of }{\i\fs20 The Financier}{\fs20 , also known for }{\i\fs20 Sister Carrie}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: Theodore }{\fs20\ul Dreiser}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 C: Cowperwood goes on to establish a monopoly of public utilities and dumps his wife Aileen before
\par taking off for Europe in this sequel to }{\i\fs20 The Financier}{\fs20 .
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: }{\i\fs20\ul The Titan}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 17. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
FTPE, name these really bright stars. Note that alpha designations will not be accepted.
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: The brightest of the beta stars is this giant at the foot of Orion\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  with apparent magnitude 0.12.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Rigel}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  or }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Algebar}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 B: The intrinsic brightness of this star of the constellation Cygnus is the greatest of all bright stars.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Deneb}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 C: A bluish-white star of classification B1 V, it is a binary star whose magnitu\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
de shifts from 0.91 to 1.01 as the two parts rotate around each other. The brightest star in Virgo, its name comes from the ear of corn held by the Virgin in Roman myth. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Spica}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 18. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 What\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s wrong with love of country? FTPE name the following from nation\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 alist music.
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: This Russian composed }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 In the Steppes of Central Asia}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  and the }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Polovtsian Dances}{\fs20 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 .
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Aleksandr }{\b\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Borodin}{\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 B: Marches bearing this tit\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 le naming a rebellious Transylvanian nobleman appear in Liszt\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Hungarian Rhapsodies}{\fs20 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  as Rhapsody 15 and Berlioz\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Damnation of Faust}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 \hich\f0  as a \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 marche Hungrois.\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: }{\fs20\ul \loch\af0\dbch\af17\hich\f0 \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Rakoczy March.\'94}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 C: Probably the best known work of Jean Sibelius, this tone poem\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s title w\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
as suggested by Axel Carpelan, an adoring fan who later became the composer\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s personal fundraiser.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 nswer: }{\i\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Finlandia}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 19. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Name these South American authors from works FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 , }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 The Golden Harvest}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 , and }{\i\fs20 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Jorge }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Amado}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 B: }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Sun Stone; The Labyrinth of Solitude}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Octavio }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Paz
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 C: }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 El Aleph}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 , }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
The Book of Sand,}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  and }{\i\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Ficciones}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Jorge Luis }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Borges}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af23 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe2052\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af17\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp2052 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 20. \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
Name these treaties involving China FTPE:
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 A: Signed near the end of the first Opium War, along with the\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  treaty of the Bogue it opened China to foreign trade.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Treaty of }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Nanjing}{\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  or }{\fs20\ul 
\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Nanking}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
B: Transferring ownership of Taiwan, Port Arthur, and the Liaotung Peninsula from a defeated China to Japan, this 1895 treaty that ended the First Sino-Japanese War\hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0  also declared Korea independent.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Treaty of }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Shimonoseki}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 
C: Signed by Qing Emperor Kang-Hsi, this 1689 treaty with an expanding Russia granted China the land north of the Amur River to the Stanovoi Mountains. It was reversed in 1858 with the Treaty \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 of Aigun.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Answer: Treaty of }{\fs20\ul \hich\af0\dbch\af17\loch\f0 Nerchinsk}{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }}