{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt MS ??};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020202020204}Trebuchet MS;}
{\f29\fmodern\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}{\f34\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f35\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f38\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f40\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f41\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f50\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f51\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f55\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f258\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs17 \additive \f28\fs24\ulnone\cf0\animtext0 
\sbasedon10 artcopy1;}{\*\cs18 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}{\*\cs19 \additive \f28\ul\cf0 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs20 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs21 \additive \ul\cf12 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\*\cs22 \additive 
\fs20\loch\f2\hich\af2\dbch\af0 \sbasedon10 HTML Typewriter;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid182330436{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid540895876}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid540895876\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info
{\title In the foreground of this painting figures in a rowboat can be seen somewhat clearly, while in the background ships and the sm}{\author skendal}{\operator Kelly McKenzie}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy27\hr16\min11}{\revtim\yr2002\mo10\dy27\hr16\min11}
{\printim\yr2002\mo10\dy22\hr23\min48}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3677}{\nofchars20961}{\*\company Arts and Sciences}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0 
ACF Fall 2002
\par Packet By Kentucky A (Seth Kendall)
\par 
\par TOSSUPS}{\f0 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1 
1. Much of the comedy in this play is provided by the dim-witted constable Elbow and the flamboyant bachelor Lucio. After setting the plot in motion, one central figure disguises himself as Friar 
Lodowick to witness the subsequent action. The plot concerns Angelo\rquote s enforcement of Vienna\rquote 
s long-ignored fornication laws, leading to the arrest of Claudio for seducing his betrothed, Juliet. However, all ends well when Duke Vincentio catches Angelo attempting to force Claudio\rquote 
s sister Isabella to yield to him. FTP, what is this comedy by Shakespeare?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 Measure for Measure}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cs22\fs20 2. In contrast to other related compounds, these compounds have their acidic side chains esterified with methanol or phytol. T
he "e" type is a rare type found in golden algae, while the "c" and "d" types are often found with the "a" type, which with the "b" type is the major type found in land plants and green algae. Found in the grana of plant cells, they are porphyrins which c
ontain magnesium. FTP, what is this green pigment which allows plants to carry out the process of photosynthesis?
\par \tab Answer: }{\cs22\b\fs20 chlorophyll}{\fs20\cf1\kerning28 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf1 3. An extramarital affair partially prompted his critique of the conflict between eroticism and religion in the essay \'93Re
ligious Rejections of the World and Their Directions\'94. The emotional domination exerted on him by his father led both to his 1898 mental breakdown and his advocacy of \'93Liberal Imperialism\'94 to solve Germany\rquote 
s agrarian problems in his famous Freiburg Address. He gained fame for his analysis of German political and economic life in }{\i\fs20\cf1 Economy and Society}{\fs20\cf1 , but is more famous today for his investigation of the roots of the \'93
spirit of capitalism\'94. FTP, who was this German thinker, author of }{\i\fs20\cf1 The Protestant Ethic}{\fs20\cf1 ?
\par \tab Answer: Max }{\b\fs20\cf1 Weber}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par 4. Another name for this goddess is \'93Bo\'f6pis\'94, making reference to her beautiful, round \'93cow-eyes\'94, and according to legend she could restore her youth and virginity every year by bathing in the waters of Canathus near Nauplia. Most famousl
y worshipped in antiquity in Argos and Samos, the cuckoo and the peacock which held the eyes of her faithful servant Argos were sacred to her, and while one legend held that she conceived one son by eating lettuce, her children Hebe, Ares, and Hephaestus 
are usually held to have been fathered by her husband, the sky god. For 10 points name this goddess of marriage and childbirth, the wife of Zeus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 Hera
\par }{\fs20\cf1 
\par }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 5. A famous anecdote about this man relates how he went to register for the census and described\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
 his military service by stating he had served in sixteen victorious campaigns, all under his own command. Among these campaigns were his defeat of Sertorius in Spain, his suppression of the Cilician pirates in six months at sea, and his final conquest of
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
Mithridates in the East, and it was for these successes, as much as his youthful resemblance to Alexander of Macedon, that Sulla gave him his famous cognomen. For 10 points name this Roman, the best general of the late Republic, who finally met his match 
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 a\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 gainst his former father-in-law and fellow triumvir Julius Caesar at Pharsalus.
\par }{\fs20\cf1 \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 Pompey}{\fs20\cf1  the Great (Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
6. The protagonist of this novel loses interest with her internship at a magazine, finds herself unable to lose her virginit
y to a UN interpreter, is nearly raped on a blind date, and discovers she has been rejected for a summer writing class. Returning home from college, she discovers she is unable to shake off her malaise with psychotherapy and attempts suicide, but after su
c
cessful shock treatments under the direction of Doctor Nolan she finds her poor spirits lifting, and manages to leave the sanatorium in time to lose her virginity to a math professor and return to school in the fall. FTP, such are the struggles of Esther 
Greenwood in what novel by Sylvia Plath?
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f0 The }{\b\i\f0 Bell Jar}{\f0  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 7. His }{\cs17\fs20 
1686 his map of the world showing the distribution of prevailing winds over the oceans was the first {\*\bkmkstart BM175466_hook}meteorological{\*\bkmkend BM175466_hook} chart to be published, while his }{\cs17\i\fs20 Breslau Table of Mortality }{
\cs17\fs20 was one of the first attempts to relate mortality and age in a population. Publisher of Newton\rquote s }{\cs17\i\fs20 Principia Mathematica}{\cs17\fs20 
, he was the first to use isolines in cartography, but is better known as the astronomer who succeeeded John Flamsteed as Astronomer Royal and whos
e visit to Saint Helena in 1676 resulted in the first stellar charts made of Southern Hemisphere. FTP, name this man who first theorized that comets traveled in an ellipse, which enabled him to plot the return of a comet from 1682 that would revisit earth
 every seventy-six years.
\par \tab Answer: Edmund }{\cs17\b\fs20 Halley
\par 
\par }{\cs17\fs20\cf1 8. The northern four-fifths of this river\rquote s valley is covered by an artificial lake created in 1965 by the Akosombo Dam, located where it cuts through the Akwapim-Togo Range. }{\fs20\cf1 Its two main branches are the }{
\cs17\fs20\cf1 Mouhoun and the Nakambe, or \'93Black\'94 and \'93White\'94, and it picks up such tributaries as the Afram and the Oti en route to the Gulf of Guinea. With a Portuguese name meaning \'93twisting\'94
, FTP, what is this chief river system of Ghana which supplied the colonial name for Burkina Faso?
\par \tab Answer: }{\cs17\b\fs20\cf1 Volta}{\cs17\fs20\cf1  River}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par 9. One memorable scene sees the male protagonist taught his first words by a blind violinist whose forest hut he has stumbled upon. The stylized movements seen in the film \'93Metropolis\'94 were imitated in the movemen
ts of the title character, memorably played by Elsa Lanchester. Lanchester is also seen portraying Mary Shelley in the prologue, which is followed by the film proper, in which Dr. Praetorius determines to create a mate for the creature created in an earli
er film. Directed by James Whale, FTP, what is this film whose title figure is famous for her towering, lightning-streaked hair?
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\fs20\cf1 Bride of Frankenstein}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 10. A one-time employee at the U.S. consulate in Budapest and interpreter for Ellis Island, \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
he was elected to the House of Representatives in 1916 and, after serving as a fighter pilot in World War I, was returned to the House in 1918. Director of Civilian Defense during WWII, his most significant legislative effort consisted of his co-sponsorsh
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 i\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 p of an act which freed members of labor unions from \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 yellow-dog\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0  contracts and from court injunctions of private labor disputes. As part of the 
\'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 Fusion\'94\loch\f0  party ticket he was elected to his most famous post in 1933, gaining a reputation for honesty and ref\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 o\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 \hich\f0 rm. Known as the \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 
Little Flower\'94\loch\f0 , FTP, name this long-time mayor of New York city, whose aviation connections were reinforced by the construction of the airport named for him.
\par \tab \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: Fiorello Henry }{\b\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 LaGuardia
\par }{\fs20\dbch\af23 
\par }{\fs20\cf1 11. The entrance of his brother into a Carthusian monastery is said to have inspired this man\rquote s }{\i\fs20\cf1 Secretum Meum}{\fs20\cf1 , while other interesting works include his }{\i\fs20\cf1 Italia Mia}{\fs20\cf1 
, inspired by his friendship with the Republican revivalist Cola di Rienzo, and }{\i\fs20\cf1 Africa}{\fs20\cf1 , an epic poem on the Second Punic War.  Other famous works include }{\i\fs20 De viris illustribus,}{\fs20 
 a series of biographies of the most famous men of all time, and }{\i\fs20 Metrical Letters}{\fs20 , but he is perhaps best known for works in the Italian vernacular he helped to popularize, such as }{\i\fs20 Trionfi}{\fs20  and the poems inspired by a wo
man he first saw in the Church of St. Clare at Avignon on April 6, 1327. FTP, name this man, who employed his namesake sonnet form in ths }{\i\fs20 Canonziere}{\fs20  or }{\i\fs20 Rime}{\fs20  addressed to the mysterious Laura.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 Petrarch}{\fs20  (Francesco Petrarca)}{
\par 
\par }{\fs20 12. His efforts in opera were almost completely unsuccessful, chiefly due to the asinine libretti seen in efforts like }{\i\fs20 Alfonso and Estrella}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 The Twin Brothers}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Fierribras}{\fs20 
. The inventor of the \'93Moments Musicaux\'94, his chamber works include the Grand Duo Piano Sonata in C Major, a series of }{\i\fs20 Impromptus}{\fs20 , and }{\i\fs20 Fantasy in F Major}{\fs20 
, but he is better known for works in another genre that include \'93Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel\'94, \'93Hark, Hark, The Lark\'94, and \'93The Doppelganger\'94. FTP, name the prolific composer of lieder probably best known for his 8}{\fs20\super th}{
\fs20  symphony, which was left unfinished.
\par \tab Answer: Franz }{\b\fs20 Schubert}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
13. Invented by Tony Hoare in 1961, its advantages include its ability to operate in place and the velocity of its inner loop. Its effectiveness can be greatly increased by using var
ious strategies to choose an efficient pivot. After a pivot is selected, all numbers less than the pivot are placed to the left, and all numbers larger than the pivot are placed to the right, with the algorithm then implemented recursively on the smaller 
lists. FTP, what is this computer science sorting algorithm named for its purported speed?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 quicksort}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
14. Warned at midnight of the approach of the enemy, Captain John Parker assembled his company of 130 men and awaited further developments while k
eeping warm at the Buckman Tavern. Consequently, when six companies of regulars under Major John Pitcairn finally arrived at dawn, only one-half of Parker\rquote 
s force was assembled. Parker was in the process of ordering a withdrawal when firing started, and af
ter a volley and a British bayonet charge, eight Minutemen were left dead and ten were wounded, while only one British soldier was wounded. FTP, what was this brief April 19, 1775 battle, after which the Redcoats were defeated at Concord? 
\par \tab Answer: Battle of }{\b\f0 Lexington
\par }{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 15. Like Montaigne, this thinker wrote a collection of brief articles known as \'93The Essays\'94, although his are also known as 
\'93The Counsels, Civil and Moral\'94. Described by Pope in \'93An Essay on Man\'94 as \'93the brightest, wisest, (and) meanest of mankind\'94
 both for his intellectual gifts and for the disgrace suffered when he accepted a bribe from a litigant as a civil servant, he held that knowledge should be amassed and studied in a systematic fashion, prompting his attempt to create the ambitions \'93I
nstauratio Magna\'94, parts of which described his method of induction and his \'93idols of the mind\'94. FTP, who was this British philosopher, author of \'93Novum Organum\'94, \'93The Advancement of Learning\'94, and \'93The New Atlantis\'94?
\par \tab Answer: Francis }{\b\fs20 Bacon}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 16. Though his\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
 parents had supported Parliament during the civil war, this poet demonstrated his loyalty to the returning Charles II in such poems as "To His Sacred Majesty" and "Astrea Redux", and even created the part of Florimel in his play }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 The Indian Emperor}{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  for the\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  king's mistress Nell Gwynne. In such later works as }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Annus Mirabilis}{
\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  and }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Absolom and Acitophel}{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
, he continued to support Charles, who had rewarded him in 1668 by appointing him the first poet laureate. The rival of Thomas Shadwell, FTP, name this English au\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 thor of }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
MacFlecknoe }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 and }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 All For Love}{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 .}{\dbch\af23 
\par }{\fs20\cf1 \tab Answer: }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 John }{\b\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Dryden}{\fs20\dbch\af23 
\par }{\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 17. Sometimes produced by the Sicilian process, this element takes on a reddish-brown solid form known as its \'93plastic\'94
 form when cooled from a molten state. Combining with nearly all other elements at valencies of 2, 4, and 6, its natural form consists of 8 atoms held in a so-called \'93puckered\'94
 ring. It is attached to two hydrogen atoms in its most famous compound, known for its smell of rotten eggs. FTP, what is this yellow nonmetallic element with atomic number 16 and symbol S?
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 sulfur}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 18. His }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Adoration of the Magi }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
features portraits of the Medicis holding the foot of Christ, while the monk looking at the viewer may be his own self-portrait. Born with the surname Filipepi, this man's more\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
 famous name may have come from the name of the goldsmith to whom he was apprenticed before studying under Fra Lippo Lippi. Painter of }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Man with Medal}{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  and }{
\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Judith}{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 , his thriftiness and association with the religious movement of Savonarola led to poverty in hi\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
s later years, despite a successful career in which he was known for illustrations of  }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 The Divine Comedy }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 and the painting }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Primavera.}{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  FTP, name this artist best known for the }{\i\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Birth of  Venus}{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 .
\par }{\fs20\cf1 \tab }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: Sandro }{\b\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Botticelli }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 (accept Filipepi until mentioned)}{\dbch\af23 
\par }{\fs20 
\par 19.
 Under its terms Brandenburg obtained eastern Pomerania, while France obtained secure possession of the Alsace, Metz, Toul, and Verdun, thus gaining a firm frontier west of the Rhine River. Sweden received western Pomerania, Wismar, Bremen, and Verden, gi
v
ing it control of the Baltic Sea. Due mainly to the efforts of Count von Trautmansdorff, it confirmed the independence of United Provinces of the Netherlands and the Swiss Confederation, with all other secular lands restored to who had held them in 1618, 
before the start of the conflict it resolved. FTP, what was this 1648 agreement that ended the Thirty Years\rquote  War?
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Peace of Westphalia
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
20. Born circa A.D. 46 in Chaeronea, this man studied philosphy in Athens and Alexandria before travelling to 
Rome, where he befriended the emperor Trajan and gave a popular series of lectures despite knowing almost no Latin. Among his lesser-known works are a series of dialogues covering various political, religious, and philosophical issues entitled }{\i\f0 
The Moralia}{\f0 , but he is more famous for his biographies. }{\f0\cf1 For 10 points}{\f0  name this Greek author known for comparing the exploits of famous Greeks and Romans in his }{\i\f0 Parallel Lives}{\f0 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\f0 Plutarch}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 21. Later in life this man turned to the study of malaria and found that\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
 the tertian and quartan types of the disease were caused by different species of the protozoan parasite Plasmodium. He is better known for his study of nerves, for which he developed the technique of staining nerve cells with silver nitrate and found the
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
point at which sensory nerve fibres end in rich branchings encapsulated within a tendon, the tendon spindle named for him. For 10 points name this co-winner of the 1906 Nobel Prize for Medicine best remembered for his discovery of an irregular system of f
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 i\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 brils, vesicles, and granules in the cell known as his  "apparatus".
\par }{\fs20\cf1 \tab Answer: }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Camillo }{\b\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Golgi}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\fs20 22. The term may be Egyptian and derive from the word meaning \'93dust\'94, indicative of the low status of those who were called by it, or from a word meaning \'93moving on\'94
, suggesting that it applied to nomads. In either case it was regularly used as a pejorative term and at first those who were identified by it never used it to describe themselves, although it is used to describe Abraham in Genesis 14:13 and seems to bec
ome more accepted and widely used throughout the rest of the Bible. }{\fs20\cf1 For 10 points}{\fs20  identify this noun, the name of a book of the \'93New Testament\'94
 still sometimes used to describe Israelites and most commonly employed to describe the language they speak.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 Hebrew}{\fs20  
\par }{
\par }{\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
23. This scientist gained fame for his improvements on the street-lighting system in Paris, and by 1775 he was put in charge of gunpowder production for the whole of France, where he made a fortune. He also made agricultural improvements in F
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 
rance and discovered new fertilising techniques, but he is best known for naming oxygen and for discovering the role it plays in combustion, which ended the phlogiston theory. For 10 points name this chemist, whose many accomplishments did not save him fr
\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 o\hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 m being guillotined in 1794. 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Answer: Antione }{\b\fs20\dbch\af23 \hich\af0\dbch\af23\loch\f0 Lavoisier}{\fs20\dbch\af23 
\par }{\fs20\cf1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0 ACF Fall 2002
\par Packet By Kentucky A (Seth Kendall)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }{\b\fs20 BONUSES
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf1 1. Identify the American president from assassins or would-be assassins, 5-5-10-10.
\par 1. Leon Czolgosz.
\par \tab Answer: William }{\b\fs20\cf1 McKinley}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 2. John Hinckley.
\par \tab Answer: Ronald }{\b\fs20\cf1 Reagan}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 3. Guiseppe Zangara.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 F}{\fs20\cf1 ranklin Delano }{\b\fs20\cf1 Roosevelt}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 4. Lynnette Fromme.
\par \tab Answer: Gerald }{\b\fs20\cf1 Ford}{\fs20\cf1 
\par }{\fs20 
\par }{\fs20\cf1 2. Given a brief plot summary name the Edgar Allen Poe story, 10 points each.
\par 1. An animal lover becomes an alcoholic and murders his beloved pet Pluto. He finds another animal which looks just like him, who proceeds to drive him mad, and when he naturally kills his wife the animal helps lead the police to the corpse.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\fs20\cf1 Black Cat}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 2. A Prince named Prospero attempts to keep himself and his court free from a mysterious illness ravaging the countryside by holing up in his castle and throwing huge parties; surprisingly, this plan is unsuccessful.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 Masque of the Red Death}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 3. Containing the poem \'93The Conqueror Worm\'94, this story tells of the narrator\rquote s lament that his wife has died. However, his hated second wife, Rowena Trevanion, soon dies, and is reborn as the title character.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 Ligeia}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 3. Identify the following African bodies of water from clues, 10 points each.
\par 1. Fed b
y 14 perennial rivers, this lake is drained by the Shire River, a tributary of the Zambezi. With an area of 11,430 square miles, it is the most significant geographic feature of Malawi and it forms that nation's boundary with Tanzania and Mozambique. 

\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 answer: Lake }{\b\f0 Nyasa}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 
2. This lake is the longest freshwater lake in the world at 410 miles and the second deepest at 4,710 feet. Varying in width from 10 to 45 miles, it forms the boundary between Tanzania and Zaire.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 answer: Lake }{\b\f0 Tanganyika}{\f0 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 3. The second-largest
 freshwater lake in the world next to Lake Superior, it is the largest lake in Africa and lies mostly within Tanzania and Uganda. It is drained by the Nile and serves as the Nile\rquote s source.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0 answer: Lake }{\b\f0 Victoria}{\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 4. FTPE, answer the following about color vision.
\par 1. (10 points) These light-sensitive receptor cells of the retina are specialized to transmit information about color to the brain.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 cones}{\fs20 
\par 2. (10 points) This shallow depression in the retina opposite the lens is home to a large concentration of cones, and thus specializes in color vision.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 fovea }{\fs20 centralis
\par 3. (10 points) The cones contain this light-sensitive pigment which exists in three forms, each of which is sensitive to one of the primary colors.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 iodopsin}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 5. Name the following about couples from Greek myth, FTSNOP. 
\par 1. (10 points) Ademtus, king of Pherae, fell ill and was told that he would die unless someone agreed to take his place; when no one volunteered, this wife went, as described in the earliest extant play by Euripedes.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 Alcestis}{\fs20 
\par 2. (5 points) Alcestis was rescued from Hades by this hero also known for such deeds as capturing the Cretan Bull and killing the Nemean Lion.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 Heracles }{\fs20 or }{\b\fs20 Hercules}{
\par }{\fs20 3. (10 points/5 points) This Phrygian couple so impressed Zeus and Hermes with their hospitality that they given their fondest wish, to die together, becoming trees whose branches intertwined. Name them, 10 points for one and 15 for both.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 Baucis}{\fs20  and }{\b\fs20 Philemon}{\fs20   
\par }{\fs20\cf1 
\par }{\fs20 6. One can learn a great deal about early nineteenth-century British history from the third season of the British comedy series }{\i\fs20 Blackadder}{\fs20 . Identify the following figures which play a role in that show, 10 points each.
\par 1. The third season is set in the twilight years of the reign of this man, when his son had taken over as regent while he suffered from his celebrated \'93madness\'94 probably caused by porphyrea.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 George III}{\fs20 
\par 2. Blackadder spends much time mocking this age of this Prime Minister who used bribery to achieve the union of Great Britain and Ireland. His failure to win Catholic Emancipation led to his 1801 resignation.
\par \tab Answer: William }{\b\fs20 Pitt the Younger}{\fs20 
\par 3. Constant fun is poked at this }{\i\fs20 femme fatale}{\fs20  and mistress of Horatio Nelson, whom Blackadder asserts suffered his characteristic wounds when issuing the challenge to the French that she \'93is a virgin, and if I\rquote 
m wrong you can shoot out my eye and cut off my arm\'94.
\par \tab Answer: Lady Emma }{\b\fs20 Hamilton}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 7. Identify the following Canterbury tales from descriptions, 10 points each.
\par 1. After a lament on his own unhappy marriage, the title character tells the story of the aged knight January, his marriage to the young girl May, and her dalliance with the squire Damyan when January is struck blind.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20 The}{\b\i\fs20  Merchant\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Tale}{\fs20 
\par 2. An old carpenter John is convinced that the second flood is coming so that the young scholar Nicholas can make time with John\rquote s young wife Alison. Hilarity involving hurtling bathtubs and red-hot pokers ensues, just like at Roger Bhan\rquote 
s bachelor pad.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20 Miller}{\i\fs20 \rquote s Tale
\par }{\fs20 2. Told in response to the }{\i\fs20 Friar\rquote s Tale}{\fs20 
, this deals with an ill man named Thomas who is hounded on his sickbed by a friar trying to squeeze cash out of him to support a convent; Thomas, moved to rage, offers  a contribution in to the friar in the form of excrement.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\fs20 The }{\b\i\fs20 Summoner\rquote s }{\i\fs20 Tale}{\fs20 
\par }{\fs20\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 8. FTPE, answer the following about the Sun.
\par 1. (10 points) This is the outermost region of the Sun\rquote s atmosphere.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 corona}{\fs20 
\par 2. (10 points) First described by Birger Vassenius and coming in active and quiescent varieties, these are dense clouds of incandescent ionized gas projecting from the Sun\rquote s chromosphere into the corona.
\par \tab Answer: solar }{\b\fs20 prominences}{\fs20 
\par 3. (10 points) Often accompanying sunspots, these are bright granular structures on the Sun\rquote s surface that are slightly hotter or cooler than the surrounding photosphere.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 facula}{\fs20 (e) (or plages)
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 9. Answer the following questions about an important part of the Constitution, 10 points each.
\par 1. The Constitution forbids these laws declaring persons guilty of offenses and imposing punishments without trials.
\par \tab Answer: Bill (or Writ) of }{\b\fs20 Attainder}{\fs20 
\par 2. Bills of Attainder are specifically forbidden in this section of Article I, which also describes the protection of habeas corpus.
\par \tab Answer: Section }{\b\fs20 9}{\fs20 
\par 3. Section 9 also forbids these laws declaring persons guilty of crimes which were legal at the time they occurred.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 ex post facto}{\fs20  laws
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 10. As your question writer is very fond of Big Brother and the Holding Company\rquote 
s acid-blues rendition of an aria from Act I, scene I of the opera }{\i\fs20 Porgy and Bess}{\fs20 , answer these questions about this aria, FTSNOP.
\par 1. 10 points: Name this aria sung by Clara as a lullaby, describing a season when \'93living is easy; fish are jumpin, and the cotton is high\'94.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 \'93Summertime\'94}{\fs20 
\par 2. 5 points: Name the composer who supplied the music for }{\i\fs20 Porgy and Bess}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 G}{\fs20 eorge }{\b\fs20 Gershwin}{\fs20 
\par 3. 15 points: Porgy and Bess was adapted by George and Ira Gershwin from Porgy, a novel by this man whose other works include the }{\cs17\fs20\cf1 plays }{\cs17\i\fs20\cf1 Brass Ankle}{\cs17\fs20\cf1  and }{\cs17\i\fs20\cf1 Mamba's Daughters}{
\cs17\fs20\cf1 . 
\par \tab Answer: Edwin Dubose }{\cs17\b\fs20\cf1 Heyward}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 11. Given a short list of works, identify the French author who penned them on a 30-20-10 basis.

\par 1. }{\i\f0 The Last Day of a Condemned Man; Ruy Blas; Ninety-Three}{\f0 
\par 2. }{\i\f0 The Toilers of the Sea; Hernani; The Man Who Laughs; Hans of Iceland}{\f0 
\par 3. }{\i\f0 Les Miserables; The Hunchback of Notre Dame}{\f0 
\par \tab Answer: Victor }{\b\f0 Hugo
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 12. The film }{\i\fs20\cf1 Gladiator}{\fs20\cf1 
 was the shiznit. Answer the following about a few of the historical details they actually got right, FTPE. 
\par 1. (10 points) The beginning of the film depicts the death of this emperor, who actually was succeeded by his son Commodus, though there is no indication that he was killed by him. Name this emperor, the last of the \'93Good Emperors\'94
 most famous for his philosophical work}{\i\fs20\cf1  Meditations}{\fs20\cf1 . 
\par \tab Answer:}{\b\fs20\cf1  Marcus Aureliu}{\fs20\cf1 s Antoninus
\par 2. (10 points) Maximus has a brief encounter with a young boy, the son of Marcus Aurelius\rquote 
s daughter and this man. Historically there is no evidence to suggest he ever married into the family of Aurelius, but he did rule as co-emperor with him from 161 to 169 CE, the first time the empire was equally shared.
\par \tab Answer:}{\b\fs20\cf1  }{\fs20\cf1 Lucius}{\b\fs20\cf1  Verus}{\fs20\cf1  
\par 3. (10 points) While he did not die in the arena as in the film, Commodus was actually killed by a gladiator and champion wrestler in 192. Name this gladiator, whose name is suggestive of vanity.
\par \tab Answer:}{\b\fs20\cf1  Narcissus
\par 
\par }{\fs20\cf1 13. Answer these questions about an important geometric concept for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (10 points) This notion basically states that if a straight line falling on two straight lines makes the interior angles on the same side less than two right angles, then the two lines will eventually meet.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 parallel postulate}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 2. (5 points) The parallel postulate is found in book one of this Alexandrian mathematician\rquote s }{\i\fs20\cf1 Elements.}{\fs20\cf1 
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 Euclid}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 3. (15 points) This English mathematician offered an important variation on Euclid\rquote 
s parallel postulate, stating that through a point not on a given line there can be drawn one and only one line parallel to the given line, a postulate named for him.
\par \tab Answer: John }{\b\fs20\cf1 Playfair}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 14. Answer the following about an artist. You will receive 5 points for one right answer, 15 for two, or 30 for all three.
\par 1. In this painting a luminescent horse looks through a curtain while a devil leers at a sleeping woman.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Nightmare}{\fs20 
\par 2. Who was the Swiss-born English painter of \'93The Nightmare\'94, also responsible for \'93Death of Cardinal Beaufort\'94 and \'93The Oath of the Rutli\'94.
\par \tab Answer: John (Johann) Henry }{\b\fs20 Fuseli}{\fs20 
\par 3. Fuseli was greatly influenced by this Renaissance artist and sculptor of the 1504 bronze \'93David\'94.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 Michelangelo}{\fs20  (Buonarotti)
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 15. Identify the authors of the following works, FTPE.
\par 1. (10 points) }{\i\fs20 Castle of Otronto}{\fs20 .
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 H}{\fs20 orace }{\b\fs20 Walpole}{\fs20 
\par 2. (10 points) }{\i\fs20 Steppenwolf}{\fs20 
\par \tab Answer: Hermann }{\b\fs20 Hesse}{\fs20 
\par 3. (10 points) }{\i\fs20 The Cloven Viscount}{\fs20 
\par \tab Answer: Italo }{\b\fs20 Calvino}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 16. FTPE, name the following common polyatomic ions given their formulas.
\par 1. (10 points) SO4 minus 2
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 sulfate}{\fs20 
\par 2. (10 points) ClO4 minus
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 perchlorate}{\fs20 
\par 3. (10 points) NO3 minus
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 nitrate}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf1 17. Given a Civil War battle and the losing general, name the winning General, FTPE.
\par 1. Kinesaw Mountain, William T. Sherman
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20\cf1 J}{\fs20\cf1 oseph E. }{\b\fs20\cf1 Johnston
\par }{\fs20\cf1 2. First Mannassas, Irwin McDowell 
\par \tab Answer: Pierre G.T. }{\b\fs20\cf1 Beauregard}{\fs20\cf1 
\par 3. Fredericksburg, Ambrose Burnside
\par \tab Answer: Robert E. }{\b\fs20\cf1 Lee
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 18. FTPE, name the following about followers of Plato\rquote s philosophy.
\par 1. (10 points) Speusippus and Xenocrates were the immediate successors of Plato as heads of this school of philosophy founded by Plato.
\par \tab Answer: The }{\b\fs20 Academy}{\fs20  of Athens
\par 2. (10 points) This 15}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century thinker was the major force behind the Renaissance revival of Platonism, as seen in his major work, \'93Platonic Theology of the Immortality of Souls\'94.
\par \tab Answer: Marsilio }{\b\fs20 Ficino}{\fs20 
\par 3. (10 points) This group of 17}{\fs20\super th}{\fs20  century Platonists named for the university where they all taught included Ralph Cudworth and Henry More, and sought to establish a philosophical foundation for Christian theology.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 Cambridge }{\fs20 Platonists
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 19. The Gospel of Luke Chapter 9 verse 54 describes how these two sons of Zebedee once asked Jesus to have divine fire rained down on a 
village of Samaria which had not received the disciples hospitably. For 10 points each:
\par 1. Name these two men, one murdered by Herod Agrippa I who later enjoyed popularity in Spain, where he has a famous church in Compostela, and the other the author of a non-synoptic Gospel and the alleged composer of the Book of Revelation.
\par \tab Answer: }{\b\fs20 James}{\fs20  The Greater and }{\b\fs20 John}{\fs20 
\par 2. A reference to the fiery tempers of James and John might be found in Mark Chapter 3 verse 17 where they are given this nickname.
\par \tab Answer: \'93}{\b\fs20 sons of thunder}{\fs20 \'94 or }{\b\fs20 boanerges}{\fs20 
\par 
\par 20. Identify the author from works, 30-20-10.
\par 1. 30 pts: The novel }{\i\fs20 A Portrait of Bascom Hawk}{\fs20 ; the collections}{\i\fs20  From Death to Morning}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 The Hills Beyond}{\fs20 , the latter published posthumously.
\par 2. 20 pts: The plays }{\i\fs20 The Return of Buck Gavin}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 Mannerhouse}{\fs20 , }{\i\fs20 The Third Night;}{\fs20  the novel}{\i\fs20  The Web and the Rock}{\fs20 
\par 3. 10 pts: The novels }{\i\fs20 You Can\rquote t Go Home Again, Of Time and the River}{\fs20  and }{\i\fs20 Look Homeward, Angel}{\fs20 
\par \tab Answer: Thomas }{\b\fs20 Wolfe}{\fs20 
\par }}