{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margb720\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard\qj \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY BERKELEY B (STEVE KAPLAN, AMAR HATTI, SETH TEITLER)\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\b\f16\fs20 TOSSUPS\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard\keepn \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul \par \pard \plain\f16\fs20 1. Originally trained as an electrician, criticism of party government cost this man his job at a government owned shipyard in 1976.  He was imprisoned during the military crackdown in 1981 after gaining  numerous concessions from the government, for which he was awarded the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize, while 7 years later he would defeat his former ally Tadeusz Mazowiecki for his country's presidency. FTP name this Polish hero, the leader of Solidarity.\par \tab Ans: Lech \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Walesa\plain\f16\fs20  (may also be pronounced as Valensa)\par \qj \par 2. This man's orchestral works include the Othello Suite and the Battle of Stalingrad Suite. Unable to speak Russian or read music when he entered the Russian Conservatory, he went on to write the ballet Spartacus, while Lezghinka and the Dance of the Rose Maidens can be found in Gayaneh, which also includes his most famous work. FTP, who is this Armenian composer of Saber Dance?\par \tab Ans: Aram \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Khatchaturian\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 3. In 1960, he gets his start as a salesman for the MagiPeel Peeler Company. Soon his wife Janice begins an affair with Charlie Stavros while he himself moves in with the prostitute Ruth Leonard. Known by a nickname derived from his habit of bearing his teeth while a star high-school basketball player, his life is defined by his aimless flight south whenever confronted by a major problem. Seen "rich" and "at rest" in recent novels, FTP, who is this protagonist of four novels by John Updike?\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Rabbit\plain\f16\fs20  or Harry "Rabbit" \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Angstrom\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 4. Adam Smith divided an elementary representation of it into effective and absolute classes, of which effective was the more important for determining the market price of a good in relation to the cost of producing it. Theories of revealed preference relate it to the individual consumer's preference, while its price elasticity measures how much more or less of a good the consumer will purchase given a decline or a rise in price. FTP name this relation used with supply to determine the equilibrium price and quantity of a good in a market.\par \pard\qj \fi720 Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Demand\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard\qj \par \pard \sl240 5. One version of this phenomenon is caused by high gravitational fields, and likely causes the high values over 3 seen in quasars. Predicted by Einstein, this gravitational version is very similar to the more common version, which is usually given a value expressed as delta lambda over lambda, but for relatively low velocities of recession, the equivalent value v over c is used. FTP, what is this displacement in the lines of the spectra of certain galaxies towards longer wavelengths, most famous in its Doppler form?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 redshift\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard\qj 6. This island's Mount Asgard is situated on the Cumberland Peninsula, and the Foxe Basin lies to the south. Home to the Sirmilik and Auyuitiq National Parks, its major cities include Pangnirtung, Pond Inlet, Arctic Bay, and Iqualuit, which now serves as the capital of Nunavat. Separated from Greenland by the Davis Strait and from mainland Canada by the Hudson Strait, FTP, what is this island named for a 17th century English explorer, the 5th largest island in the world?\par \pard\qj \fi720 Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Baffin\plain\f16\fs20  Island\par \pard\qj \par \ql 7. Talat was one of the leaders of this movement which sought to reestablish their country's liberal constitution of 1876. Reformers who wished to modernize and westernize their country, they ousted Abd ul-Hamid II in 1908. Led in part by Jamal and Enver Pasha, FTP, what was this revolutionary group of the Ottoman Empire whose name indicates their upstart nature?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Young Turks\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \qj 8. Construction on this building was inititated in the 13th century by Ibn al-Ahmar of the Nasrid dynasty, and as completed it consists of an old fortress and a slightly more modern palace complex. The Court of the Pools makes up part of the palace, while the other major part is home to a famous alabaster basin suported by twelve white marble lions, and is appropriately named The Court of Lions. With a name probably derived from the color of its bricks, FTP, what is this Moorish palace of Grenada.\par \pard\qj \fi720 Ans: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Alhambra\plain\f16\fs20  or The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Red Castle\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard\qj 9. Mysteries in this novel include the birthday of the main character and the identity of Martha Clifford, who flirts with him by mail. In a major event, the protagonist masturbates while looking at Gerty MacDowell's legs during a fireworks display on June 16, 1904, and the novel closes with a famous stream of consciousness soliloquy by the protagonist's wife Molly. FTP, identify this novel about Leopold Bloom written by James Joyce.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Ulysses\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 10. NADPH provides its reducing power, having acquired energized electrons in the previous reaction, while ATP from the previous reaction provides energy for this process, whose ultimate product is glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. It begins with carbon fixation catalyzed by the enzyme rubisco, and in most plants it takes place during the daytime, even though sunlight is not required. Also known as the dark cycle, FTP, identify this cycle paired with the light reactions of photosynthesis and named for its discoverer.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Calvin cycle\plain\f16\fs20  (accept \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul dark cycle\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul dark reactions\plain\f16\fs20  before it is mentioned)\plain\b\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 11. Originally a professional soldier, this man became governor of Curacao in 1644. Taking his most famous post in 1647, he soon negotiated a mutually acceptable boundary with Connecticut by the Treaty of Hartford. Known for both the efficiency and harsh intolerance of his rule, this governor expanded his colony into the Delaware River area by conquering New Sweden, but was overwhelmed by a surprise English attack and forced to surrender in 1664. FTP, name this one-legged man, the last Dutch ruler of New Netherland. \par \tab Ans: Peter\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Stuyvesant\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 12. This thinker is famous for his writings on the concept of the "naturalistic fallacy" within the context of ethical systems. Editor of the periodical Mind, he began teaching in 1911 as a follower of Kant's transcendental epistemology, and went on to expound on the need to carefully clarify and examine the meaning of propositions while championing common sense. The author of Refutation of Idealism and major influence on the Bloomsbury Group, FTP, who was this major British philosopher, the author of Principia Ethica? \par \pard\qj \fi720 Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul G\plain\f16\fs20 eorge\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul E\plain\f16\fs20 dward\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Moore\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard\qj \par 13. The husband of the title character of this literary work is a scholar writing a book about the domestic handicrafts of Brabant in the Middle Ages. A recurring theme is the desire to "die beautifully", and is first seen when the protagonist uses her power over her husband's academic rival Eilert Lovborg to convince him to commit suicide, after which Judge Brack tries to blackmail the title character into sleeping with him. FTP, this is a brief description of what play named for the female protagonist, written by Henrik Ibsen?.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Hedda Gabler\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. Original members of this movement included F.G. Stephens, Thomas Woolner, and James Collinson. Advocating the expression of genuine ideas and study of Nature, their aroused controversy with paintings like The Girlhood of Mary Vrigin and Christ in the House of His Parents. Noted for their association with literature, they published the journal The Germ, and were named for their desire to recapture the artistic spirit of early Renaissance Italy. FTP, what was this 19th century British at movement whose members included William Holman Hunt and Dante Gabriel Rossetti?\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Pre-Raphaelite\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\f16\fs20 Brotherhood\par \par 15. These groups of objects are divided into various types using the Trumpler classification. Usually irregular in shape and more loosely packed than their counterparts, they can contain anywhere from a few dozen to several hundred objects. There are about 1,000 known examples, all found in the spiral arms of the galaxy, and their distances are calculated using main-sequence fitting to the Hyades, which with the Beehive is the most famous example of one. FTP, what is this type of star cluster, the counterpart of globular clusters?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Open cluster\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \sl240 16. This Scirian was one of the chief officers of Orestes, and was murdered at a banquet by his chief rival. After his most famous achievement his troops overran Dalmatia, threatening the power of the eastern emperor Zeno. However, in 493 he was forced to surrender Ravenna when Zeno encouraged Theodoric to attack him. FTP, who was this Gothic chieftain who overthrew Romulus Augustulus to become the first Germanic ruler of Italy?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Odoacer\plain\f16\fs20  (or Odovacer)\par \par \pard\qj 17. In 1882 all organizations of this religion were divided into two groups, state shrines and sectarian churches. The written record of the ancient beliefs and customs first appeared in 712's Record of Ancient Matters. This religion worships a collection of extraordinary natural objects, gods and supernatural beings known as kami, while emperors were said to be descended from its sun goddess. FTP, name this major Japanese religion.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Shinto\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Shintoism\plain\f16\fs20  \par \par 18. She rides a pale-white horse which keeps a slow, steady gait, yet she cannot be caught by any rider no matter how they spur their horse. After the birth of her son, the six women appointed to watch over her son fell asleep. After his kidnapping the six women smeared this woman's face with blood and pretended she had killed her son. FTP, identify this mother of Pryderi and wife of Pwyll whose name is found in the title of a Fleetwood Mac song.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Rhiannon\plain\f16\fs20  \par \par 19. These elements can be prepared through the reduction of AcF3 or AcF4 with lithium, calcium, or magnesium at temperatures of 1100 to 1400 degrees Celsius. Known for their self-heating, extreme explosiveness, and short lifetimes, all of their isotopes tend to be unstable and most undergo radioactive alpha decay, and the Aufbau principal dictates that they are constructed by adding electrons to the 5f subshell. Characterized by a 7s2 configuration FTP, what is the collective name for chemical elements 89-103?\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Actinides\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Actinide series\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Actinoids\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 20. This literary character's death is brought about by his loyalty to Cassy and Emmeline. An intensely Christian man, he had earlier been separated from his wife Chloe by Haley, and is horrified by the brutalities endured by his fellow passangers on a ship during his subsequent voyage to Louisiana. He soon befriends Eva St. Clair, but seees his hopes of freedom ended when he is bought by Simon Legree. FTP, who is this title character of the most famous novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe? \par \tab Ans: Uncle\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Tom\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 21. Another name for it is instrumental learning, a term introduced by Thorndike, whose law of effect became the cornerstone of the theory of this process. Unlike the simpler classical variety, in this form of learning the response is mainly influenced by stimuli that follow rather than precede the response, and acquisition of a newly learned pattern of response is typically achieved through reinforcement. Studied by B. F. Skinner, FTP, what is this type of conditioning?\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul operant\plain\f16\fs20  conditioning\par \line 22. His father organized the investigation into the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby. He served two tours of duty in Vietnam and attained the rank of General in 1978. In 1983 he was a deputy commander in the invasion of Grenada, but he would gain his greatest notoriety several years later. FTP, name this man who commanded the U.S. forces in the Gulf War and authored the book \plain\f16\fs20\ul It Doesn\'edt Take a Hero\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Ans. H. Norman \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Schwarzkopf\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 23. From 1662 to the end of his life he held the post of "curator of experiments" to the Royal Society. He worked on a wave theory of light, a theory of gravitation, and speculated on the atomic composition of matter. After the Great Fire of 1666, he was named Surveyor of London. He discovered that spiral springs have a period of oscillation independent of amplitude, and helped Robert Boyle invent a gas pump. FTP, identify this scientist who, while looking at cork through a microscope, coined the term cell.\par \pard\qj \fi720 Ans: Robert \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Hooke\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard\qj \page \par \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY BERKELEY B\par \par BONUSES\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 1. Identify these members of William Henry Harrison\'eds cabinet 5-10-15.\par 5) Harrison\'eds Secretary of State was this New Hampshire politician who would retain his job under Tyler and negotiate a treaty ending the Aroostook War.\par \tab Ans: Daniel\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Webster\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Harrison's Secretary of War was this former Speaker of the House from Tennessee who would run for president as the Constitutional Union Party nominee in 1860.\par \tab Ans: John\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Bell\plain\f16\fs20 \par 15) This man, Harrison's Secretary of the Treasury, would go on to become the first ever Secretary of the Interior under Zachary Taylor in 1849.\par \tab Answer: Thomas \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ewing\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. Identify the following characters from Candide 5-10-15\par 5) This philosopher is reunited with Candide in Holland.  His philosophy states that everything is for the best.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Pangloss\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Candide falls in love with this princess, but due to banishment cannot be with her. At the end of the book he is reunited with this now incredibly ugly character.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Cunegonde\plain\f16\fs20 \par 15) This character orders several people to be burned alive in order to prevent further earthquakes in the wake of a large one in Lisbon.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20 The \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Grand Inquisitor\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 3. Identify the following Norse deities from descriptions FTPE.\par 10) This god of fire is currently chained to a rock with snakes dripping venom on him, where his wife Sigyn holds a bowl to catch as much venom as she can.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Loki\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This god once made the mistake of sitting on Odin's throne, and possesses the magical boat Skithbathnir. The Norse god of peace and fertility, he fell in love with the giantess Gerda, who demanded his magic sword as a wedding gift.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Frey\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) The son of Balder and Nanna, he lived in Glitnir, the Shining Palace. He was the best judge who ever lived, and could mediate any dispute.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Forseti\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 4. Identify the following people who did important work on Saturn\'eds rings.\par 10) This man was the first to resolve that the features Galileo had seen through his telescope were, in fact, rings.\par \tab Ans: Christian \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Huygens\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This man showed that Saturn's rings could not consist of a continuous sheet of material, and hypothesized that the rings were in fact a series of very thin rings of material. With his work on the moon's acceleration he removed the last known anomaly from Newtonian mechanics.\par \tab Ans\plain\b\f16\fs20 : \plain\f16\fs20 Pierre Simon, marquis de \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Laplace\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This man improved on Laplace's work, showing that the rings in fact had to consist of many smaller particles orbiting Saturn. With Boltzmann his name is attached to an important distribution.\par \tab Ans: James Clerk \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Maxwell\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 5. Name these Pacific political entities from their respective capitals, FTPE.\par 1. Honiara\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Solomon\plain\f16\fs20  Islands\par 2. Suva\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fiji\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3.  Nuku\'edalofa\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Tonga\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 6. Given the name of a European alliance from the first half of the twentieth century, name the three members FTPE. If you only get two correct, you will receive five points.\par 10/5) The Triple Alliance\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Germany\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Austria-Hungary\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Italy\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10/5) The Triple Entente\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul France\plain\f16\fs20 ,\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Great Britain\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\f16\fs20 or\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul England\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\f16\fs20 or the\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul UK\plain\f16\fs20 , and\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Russia\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10/5) The Little Entente\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Czechoslovakia\plain\f16\fs20 ,\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Romania\plain\f16\fs20 ,\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Yugoslavia\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 7. Identify the American authors of the following works FTPE\par 10) Life on the Mississippi\par \tab Answer: Mark \plain\b\f16\fs20 Twain\plain\f16\fs20  or Samuel Longhorn \plain\b\f16\fs20 Clemens\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) \plain\f16\fs20\ul The Financier\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\f16\fs20\ul Jennie Gerhardt\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Ans: Theodore Herman Albert \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Dreiser\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) \plain\f16\fs20\ul The Floating Opera\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\f16\fs20\ul Giles Goat-Boy\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\f16\fs20\ul The Sot-Weed Factor\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Ans: John Simmons \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Barth\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 8. Identify these Renaissance artists, FTPE.\par 10) This Italian created the bronze "David" the the equestrian statue "Gattamelatta"\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Donatello\plain\f16\fs20  (or Donato di Niccolo)\par 10) This painter\'eds Holy Trinity is the first Renaissance painting to feature a single vanishing point for parallel lines.  He also contributed frescos for the Brancacci Chapel, and painted The Tribute Money and The Expulsion of Adam and Eve.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Masaccio\plain\b\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20 Tommaso di \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Ser Giovanni di Mone\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This artist codified linear perspective in his treatise \plain\f16\fs20\ul On Painting\plain\f16\fs20 . He designed the Rucellai Palace in Florence, the Tempio Malatestiano in Remini, and the Church of Sant\'edAndrea in Mantua.\par \tab Ans: Leon Battista \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Alberti\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 9. Answer the following questions about the cell division process, FTPE.\par 10) Chromosome division and cytokinesis occur during this phase of a cell's life cycle which is divided into prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul M\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Mitosis\plain\f16\fs20  phase\par 10) This is the phase of the cell life cycle in which chromatins and chromosomes double. It is considered to be a part of interphase.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul S\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 DNA \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul synthesis\plain\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20 phase\par \plain\f16\fs20 10) This protein is a critical component of the cytoskeleton, and its contraction finally separates the two daughter cells from each other.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul actin\plain\f16\fs20  \par \par \ql 10. Identify these Egyptian pharaohs from descriptions FTPE.\par 10) According to Exodus this pharaoh enslaved the Israelites.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Ramses II\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This pharaoh was the first to introduce monotheism, changing his name to reflect the new state religion.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Amenhotep IV\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Ikhnaton\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Akhenaton\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Most scholars consider him to be the first king of the first dynasty who united the Delta Kingdom and Thebes. His accomplishments are recorded on a famous palette.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Narmer\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Menes\plain\f16\fs20 \par \qj \par \ql 11. FTPE, name the following from the Five Pillars of Islam.\par 1. (10 points) This pillar calls for daily worship five times each day, occuring when called by the muezzin.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 salat\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 salah\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Culminating in the Festival of Sacrifice, Id ul-Adha, this is the pilgrimage to the Kaaba in Mecca required of all those who are able, and which occurs during the 12th month.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 hajj\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 hadj\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) The first pillar, iman, or faith, calls for the recitation of this, a summarized confession of belief. It is sometimes itself referred to as the first pillar of Islam.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 shahadah\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \qj 12. Identify these works of Bernard Malamud from plot description 5-10-15.\par 5) This book, a retelling of the Arthurian legend, concerns Roy Hobbes and the New York Knights baseball team.\par \tab Ans: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Natural\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) In this novel Yakov Bok leaves his village to go to the city, where he is arrested and held in prison without indictment for years.\par \tab Ans: The\plain\b\f16\fs20\ul  Fixer\plain\f16\fs20 \par 15) This work revolves around Morris Bober's small Brooklyn grocery store which is robbed by Frank Alpine, who fills the title role.\par \tab Ans: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Assistant\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. Identify these philosophers of the Middle Ages, 5-10-15.\par 5) Known as Venerabilis Inceptor and Doctor Invincibilis, he is most famous for his principle that"entities should not be multiplied beyond what is necessary," known as his razor.\par \tab Ans: William of \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Occam\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This 12th-century Spanish-Arab was a lawyer and physician of Cordoba best-known for his commentaries on Aristotle and his defence of philosophy against al-Ghazali entitled The Incoherence of the Incoherence. \par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Averroes\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Ibn Rushd\plain\f16\fs20 \par 15) This 9th-century philosopher's name meant "John the Irishman, the Irishman." He was called to the Palatine School of King Charles the Bald to translate the \plain\f16\fs20\ul Pseudo-Dionysius\plain\f16\fs20 , which greatly influenced his own \plain\f16\fs20\ul On the Divisions of Nature\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Ans: John Scotus \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Erigena\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. No movie of this past summer inspired academia as much as the magmun opus that was Bubble Boy. In honor of this, FTPE, answer the following questions on the physics of Bubble Boy. Assume that his mass is 60 kilograms. You will have ten seconds per part.\par 10) A truck with mass 900 kilograms moving at 10 meters per second hits Bubble Boy. After the collision, the truck is moving at 9 meters per second in the original direction. In meters per second, how fast is Bubble Boy moving immediately after the collision?\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul 15 meters per second\par \plain\f16\fs20 10) Just after the truck launches Bubble Boy at 15 meters per second, Bubble Boy crashes through a billboard. It is a completely inelastic collision, and a piece of the sign with mass 15 kilograms sticks to him. How fast is he moving after this collision?\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul 12 meters per second\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Bubble Boy drops out of a plane and reaches terminal velocity, which in his case is 40 meters per second. Assuming a completely elastic collision with the ground, ignoring air friction, and taking the acceleration of gravity to be 10 meters per second squared, how high will he bounce?\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul 80 meters\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 15. Identify the following composers who wrote operas based on the Orpheus myth FTPE.\par 10) This early Baroque Italian composer wrote the operas Orfeo, Ulysses's Return Home, and The Coronation of Poppea.\par \tab Ans: Claudio\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Monteverdi\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This Austrian was Kappelmeister to the Esterhazy family in Hungary, and composed the oratorios The Creation and The Seasons, as well as the London Symphonies.\par \tab Ans: Franz Joseph \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Haydn\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This 18th-century French composer of Orpheus and Eurydice also composed the operas Alceste and Iphigenie en Tauride.\par \tab Ans: Christoph Willibald [Ritter von] \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Gluck\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \ql 16. FTPE, answer the following about a late 19th century Native American religious movement.\par 1. (10 points) Beginning in 1879 with the Paiute Indians, this religious revival promised reunion with the dead, eternal life, peace, and a world free from whites. Spreading rapidly throughout the Great Plains, it became linked with militantly anti-white teachings that prophesied war.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ghost Dance\plain\f16\fs20  Religious Revival\par 2. (10 points) The Ghost Dance Religion had its origins with the teachings of this Paiute shaman.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Wovoka\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Attempts to suppress the Ghost Dance Religion led to the death of this leader of the Sioux. Having rose to fame fighting the Crow Indians, he organized the victory at Little Big Horn during the 3rd Sioux War.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Sitting Bull\plain\f16\fs20  (or Tatanka Iyotake)\par \par \qj 17. Identify the following Japanese forms of theater FTPE.\par 10) Developed during the Tokugawa period, in this puppet theater the puppet masters sit on stage and move with their puppets while the musical narrative is chanted by a reciter with musical accompaniment. Its greatest practitioner was probably Chikamatsu Monzaemon.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul bunraku\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Developed out of bunraku during the Tokugawa period, the plays of this style are flamboyant spectacles intended for the merchant class. It depicted historical dramas or domestic situations performed by male mimes.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul kabuki\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) This oldest form of Japanese drama evolved during the Muromachi period. It uses choral music and dancing, set themes, simple symbolic scenery, elaborately masked and costumed performers, and stylized acting.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul noh\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 18. Identify the Supreme Court Chief Justice at the time of these landmark decisions FTSNOP.\par 10) Gibbons v. Ogden\par \tab Answer: John \plain\b\f16\fs20 Marshall\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) University of California Regents v. Bakke\par \tab Ans: Warren \plain\b\f16\fs20 Burger\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 10) Plessy v. Ferguson\par \tab Ans: Melville W. \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Fuller\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 19. Given a painting of a monarch name the court painter who executed it FTPE.\par 10) Portrait of Henry VIII.\par \tab Ans: Hans\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Holbein the Younger\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Charles I at the Hunt.\par \tab Ans: Anthony\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Van Dyck\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Family of Charles IV.\par \tab Ans: Francisco \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Goya\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \sl240 20. FTPE, name the following about a type of compound.\par 1. (10 points) These are compounds containing a carbon atom double bonded to an oxygen atom. Examples include carboxylic acids, aldehydes, and ketones.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 carbonyl\plain\f16\fs20  compounds\par 2. (10 points) In this reduction reaction, hydrazine is added to a ketone or aldehyde. The resulting hydrazone compound is then placed in a basic solution and heated, causing the release of nitrogen, leaving an alkane.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Wolff-Kishner\plain\f16\fs20  Reduction\par 3. (10 points) This is a reaction for synthesizing olefins from carbonyl compounds. In it, a carbonyl compound reacts with an organic phosphorous compound, forming a hydrocarbon with a double bond.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Wittig\plain\f16\fs20  synthesis\par \par \pard\qj 21. Identify the following thermodynamic quantities from definitions FTPE.\par 10) This quantity is defined as F = U - TS where U is energy, T is temperature and S is entropy. For a reversible isothermal process, the total work performed on a system is equal to the increase in this quantity.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Helmholtz free energy\plain\f16\fs20 \par 10) Symbolized by a capital H, this quantity is defined as U + PV where U is energy, P is pressure, and V is volume. It takes the role of energy in processes occuring at constant pressure.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Enthalpy\plain\f16\fs20  \par 10) Symbolized G, this quantity is defined as enthalpy minus temperature times entropy. The change in this quantity is equal to the effective work performed on a system in a reversible process at constant temperature and pressure.\par \tab Ans: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Gibbs free energy\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16 \par \par \ql \par }
