{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\b\f0\fs20 ACF FALL TOURMAMENT\par
PACKET BY CHICAGO (Ed Cohn, Matt Reece, Paul Johnson, and Christian Kammerer)\par
\par
TOSSUPS\par
\b0\par
\f1 1. Its founder, a veteran named William Mooney, developed a long series of fake Indian rituals as a way to mock its higher-class rival, the Society of Cincinnati.  Named for a Delaware Indian chief and incorporated as an immigrant aid association in 1805, it gradually became active in politics, eventually helping elect Fernando Wood as mayor of New York. Associated with \ldblquote Boss\rdblquote  Tweed, FTP, what was this New York City political machine?\f0\par
\tab Answer: \b Tammany\b0  Hall (or The Society of St. Tammany)\par
\par
2. They often stand out in electron micrographs because of a crystalloid core made up of urate oxidase.  In germinating seeds, they are called glyoxysomes, since they convert fats to sugars as part of the glyoxylate cycle.  Remarkably adaptable, they are small in yeast cells grown on sugar, but grow large if the yeast is transferred to methanol.  For 10 points-name these organelles that break down many molecules by producing hydrogen peroxide.\par
\tab Answer: \b peroxisomes\par
\b0\par
3. Its coins include the sprug, drurr, and glumgluff.  Its emperor supports the Slamecksan faction, while the prince is thought to favor the rival Tramecksans, who wear high-heeled shoes.  Civil unrest followed the prophet Lustrog's declaration concerning the proper side to break eggs, just one example of the pettiness seen on this island, the first visited by the man who describes it, and who, after initially helping them in their war with Blefuscu, becomes disillusioned when they propose tying him down to prevent him from fending for himself. FTP, what is this island of diminuitive people visited by Lemuel Gulliver?\par
\tab Answer: \b Lilliput\b0\par
\par
4. Notable adherents of this doctrine include\f1 d\f0  Edward Herbert of Cherbury and Henry St. John. Arguing against the need for religion to be imposed by religious institutions or supported by divine revelations, it reached its height during the 18th century Enlightenment, and held that belief in God can commend itself to the human mind by its own reasonableness. Adhered to by Voltaire, FTP, what is this religious doctrine usually taken to involve God's leaving the Universe to its own lawful devices?\par
\tab Answer: \b deism\b0  (prompt on natural religion)\par
\par
5. The causes of this war included the construction of Mennonite settlements in a disputed region, rumors of new petroleum deposits there, and the recent Tacna-Arica Settlement. When the League of Nations failed as a mediator, the German-trained Bolivian army was expected to win easily, but the inability of the Bolivian Indian conscripts to adapt to the region's weather combined with the tactical skill of Jose Felix Estigarribia led to a Paraguayan victory. FTP, name this 1932-35 war between Bolivia and Paraguay fought over a piece of lowland  territory.\par
\tab Answer: Gran \b Chaco\b0  War\par
\par
6. This two dimensional manifold is orientable and has Euler characteristic 0.  It can be expressed as the product of two circles, but like the Klein bottle is more often viewed as a square with opposite sides identified.  FTP, name this surface, which is more familiar to most people as the surface of a donut.\par
\tab Answer:  \b Torus\par
\b0\par
\f1 7. The female protagonist of this poem is first seen singing the 100th Psalm. The title character says he is not afraid of bullets or cannons, but admits \ldblquote That of a thundering 'No!' point-blank from the mouth of a woman, / That I confess I'm afraid of.\rdblquote   Due to this, the title character sends his young friend to plead his case for the love of Priscilla, but Priscilla urges John to speak for himself, leading John to declare his own love for Priscilla. FTP, what is this Longfellow poem about a 17th centur\f0 y American historical figure? \par
\tab Answer:  The \b Courtship of Miles Standish\b0\par
\par
\f1 8. Creator of the painted wooden crucifix in Sta Maria Novella, this man received the world\rquote s first technical patent for an invention that he claimed would help him haul marble down the Arno River. Originally a goldsmith and sculptor, he designed the Pazzi chapel and the Church of the Santo Spiritu after he lost a bid to design the gates of the Florence Baptistery to Lorenzo Ghiberti. FTP, name this first great Renaissance architect best-known for his design of the dome of the Florence cathedral.\f0\par
\tab Answer: Filippo \b Brunelleschi\par
\b0\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 9. Flaws in Schrodinger's equation or Bohr's formula can be corrected by introducing this value measured in multiples of a unit called the Dirac h, or h-bar. It was first proposed by Samuel Goudsmit and George Uhlenbeck to explain the spectra of light emitted by atoms of alkali metals. Calculated for complex nuclei by taking the vector sum of the intrinsic values for the constituent particles and their orbital angular momentum, it is zero for nuclei with even numbers of neutrons and protons in their ground states and for pions, while for electrons, neutrons, and protons the multiple involved is 1/2. FTP, what is this measure of the amount of angular momentum associated with a subatomic particle or nucleus?\par
\tab Answer: \b spin\b0\par
\par
\pard 10. Failed romances helped inspire this composer's song cycle \i Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen\i0  and the cantata \i Das Klagende Lied\i0 .  Director of the Imperial Opera of Vienna from 1897-1907, his death fixation helped shape his \i Kindertotenlieder,\i0\f1 or \ldblquote Songs on the Death of Children\rdblquote , and a year after his cancer diagnosis he wrote Song of the Earth.  FTP, name this Austrian-Jewish composer best-known for the Titan Symphony, the Resurrection Symphony, and the Symphony of a Thousand.\f0\par
\tab Answer:\tab Gustav \b Mahler\par
\b0\par
\f1 11. It is said that this play\rquote s title character \ldblquote always wears her hair in the same style.\rdblquote   Its author, while attempting to learn English, was amazed by the emptiness of the bits of daily conversation he found in his English phrasebook, and sought to produce a play from such clich\'e9d , meaningless chatter.  The result was a work starring Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Warren, and the Fire Chief. For ten points, what is this 1950 play by Eugene Ionesco? \f0\par
\tab Answer: The \b Bald Soprano\b0  (or _La Cantatrice chauve_)\par
\par
\f1 12. Known for the 1972 "Declaration of Conscience", Earl Warren claimed that if he\rquote d been nominated for president in 1952, he would have made this Senator his running mate.  The first Republican to denounce Joseph McCarthy on the Senate floor, this one-time reporter finished second to Barry Goldwater for the 1964 Republican presidential nomination, fourteen years after going to the House of Representatives to succeed her late husband. FTP, name this long-time senator from Maine.\f0\par
\tab Answer: Margaret (Madelin) Chase \b Smith\b0\par
\par
13. Its northernmost island is Nanumea, and its southernmost is Niulakita.  Made up of nine isolated atolls located north of the Wallis and Futuna Islands and southwest of Kiribati, it won its independence in 1978, only three years after separating from the Gilbert Islands.  Originally known as the Ellice Islands, FTP, name this archipelago whose main island Vaitupu is home to the capital Funafuti. \par
\tab Answer:\tab\b Tuvalu\b0\par
\par
14. One of his techniques was writing \i sous rature\i0\f1 , or \ldblquote under erasure\rdblquote : writing a word, then crossing it out, then leaving the crossed-out word in the text.  His first book was a translation of Husserl\rquote s \i\f0 Origin of Geometry\i0 , which he followed with the collection \i Writing and Difference\i0 , in which he attacked structuralism and used his famous method to discuss Descartes and Foucault.  FTP, name this author of \i Of Grammatology\i0  and theorist of deconstruction.\par
\tab answer:\tab Jacques \b Derrida\b0\par
\par
15. The first, signed in 1668, left France its conquests in Flanders but ended the French invasion of the Spanish Netherlands.  The second gave Silesia to Prussia, recognized the Hanoverian succession in England, and confirmed the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713, ensuring Maria Theresa's right to rule Austria.  FTP, what is the shared name of these treaties, the second of which ended the War of the Austrian Succession in 1748?\par
\tab Answer: Treaty of \b Aix-la-Chapelle\b0\par
\par
16. One of this man's students was Jomo Kenyatta, and he wrote the introduction to Kenyatta's \i Facing Mount Kenya\i0\f1 . Author of 1948's "Magic, Science, and Religion", he attacked Sigmund Freud\rquote s concept of the Oedipus complex using evidence collected on the Trobriand Islands. The founder of "functionalism", FTP, who was this Polish-born social anthropologist, the author of \i\f0 Argonauts of the Western Pacific?\i0\par
\tab Answer:\tab Bronislaw \b Malinowski\par
\b0\par
17. In this novel, Rosamond Vincy is more interested in money than moral standards, causing trouble for her husband, Dr. Lydgate, as he struggles to decide whether to build a wealthy medical practice or pursue idealistic medical reforms.  These reforms are supported by the main character, who is trying to escape her love for Will Ladislaw, who she must not marry to keep the inheritance of her late husband Edward Casaubon. Centering on the chacacter Dorthea Brooke, FTP, what is this novel, arguably the best-known work of George Eliot? \par
\tab Answer:  \b Middlemarch\par
\b0\par
18. It can be transformed into lyxose using the Ruff degradation. Like the other aldohexoses, its chemical formula is C6H12O6, but unlike talose or glucose, it gives an optically-inactive meso compound upon reaction with nitric acid. A major component of many gums, mucilages, and pectins in plants, it is also a constituent in animal glycolipids and glycoproteins. For ten points, name this simple sugar which bonds to glucose to form lactose.\par
\tab Answer: \b galactose\b0\par
\par
19. In part because of a curse on his family, this Alcmaeonid was opposed by his fellow aristocrats, and turned to the common people to achieve power.  He then instituted ostracism, expanded the Athenian council to 500 members, and reformed the Athenian tribes, abolishing the four old ancestor tribes in favor of ten new ones composed of three \i trittyes\i0\f1  each. FTP, name this Athenian who sought to build on Solon\rquote s democratic reforms, generally acknowledged as the founder of Athenian democracy.\f0\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b Cleisthenes\b0  of Athens\b\par
\b0\par
20. One of his lovers was Uathach, a daughter of his tutor, the warrior-woman Scathach, and forgetting his own strength, he broke Uathach's fingers while taking a dish from her hand. His son Conlaoch later challenged him to single combat, and not recognizing his son, he impaled him on the end of his spear. Possessing seven fingers, seven toes, and seven pupils in each eye, FTP, who is this Celtic hero best-known for fighting off the forces of Queen Maeve?\par
\tab Answer: \b Cu Chulainn\b0  (or Setanta)\par
\par
21. Its inventor, Guido van Rossum, claims that he was influenced primarily by ABC and Modula-3. It supports objected-oriented and generic programming styles, and is perhaps best known for its emphasis on readability, with indented blocks and a notable lack of semicolons compared to many other languages. FTP, identify this programming language with a name inspired by a 70s British comedy series rather than a type of snake.\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b Python\b0\par
\par
\f1 22. An unusual blend of textbook and novel, it was written by a former high school teacher who wanted to write an introduction to philosophy within the framework of a mystery story.  The title character receives strange mail addressed to someone called \ldblquote Hilde,\rdblquote  and her attempts to discover their source lead her to a course in western philosophy. A Norwegian bestseller, FTP, what is this novel by Jostein Gaarder?\f0\par
\tab Answer: \b Sophie's World \b0 (or _Sofies verden_)\par
\par
23. This man showed that carbon is tetravalent. A native of Darmstadt, he first studied architecture, but became interested in chemistry when he heard Liebig give evidence in a murder trial.  His interest in structure is shown in his study of reaction products, but he never finished his major work, the Lehrbuch der Organischen Chemie. For ten points, name this German chemist famous for his dream concerning the structure of benzene.\par
\tab Answer:\tab Friedrich August \b Kekule\par
\b0\par
\page\b ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET BY CHICAGO\par
\par
BONUSES\b0\par
\par
1. Give the musical term from a description, FTPE.\par
1. (10 points) This refers to a continuous slide from one note to another.\par
\tab Answer: \b glissando\par
\b0 2. (10 points) This term indicates that one should pluck, rather than bow, a stringed instrument.\par
\tab Answer: \b pizzicato\par
\b0 3. (10 points) Literally meaning "enunciated," this is a bowing technique for stringed instruments in which the bow bounces slightly off the string between notes. Usually it is played slightly below the middle of the bow, for the best bounce.\par
\tab Answer: \b spiccato\b0\par
\par
2. Name these Chinese dynasties, for 10 points each.\par
1. (10 points) This dynasty oversaw the invention of both paper and porcelain.  Its rule, which lasted from 206 BC to AD 220, was briefly interrupted by the reformer Wang Mang.\par
\tab Answer:  \b Han\b0  Dynasty\par
2. (10 points) This dynasty saw the advancement of the city\f1  and\f0  the rise of a wealthy mercantile class.  It fell to Kublai Khan in 1279.\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b Song\b0  Dynasty\par
3. (10 points) This dynasty, founded by Mongol invaders, suffered from inflation and taxes that alienated the peasants and led to the uprisings that toppled it in 1368.\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b Yuan\b0  Dynasty\par
\par
3. FTPE, name the following stuff about an author.\par
1. (10 points) This French author is probably best known for his novel The Stranger.\par
\tab Answer: Albert \b Camus\b0\par
2. (10 points) In this novel, the lawyer Clamence tells the story of his life to a man he meets in an Amsterdam bar, revealing his secret loathing of all the people he has ever helped.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Fall\b0  (or La Chute)\par
3. (10 points) Set in Oran, this novel focuses not so much on the titular event as on the isolation experienced by those, like Dr. Rieux, who are separated from loved ones by it.\par
\tab Answers: The \b Plague\b0  (or La Peste)\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 4. Let's face it. There is nothing cooler than retrograde orbits, and if you say otherwise, you're lying. FTSNOP, answer the following about moons with retrograde orbits.\par
1. (5 points) The most famous moon with a retrograde orbit is this largest moon of Neptune.\par
\tab Answer: \b Triton\b0\par
2. (10 points) Of Jupiter's 16 known moons, four exhibit retrograde orbits. FTPE, name any one of those four, the four outermost of Jupiter's moons.\par
\tab Answer: \b Ananke, Carme, Pasiphae, Sinope\b0\par
3. (15 points) Other than the five moons previously mention\f1 ed\f0 , this outermost of Saturn's 18 known moons has the only \f1 other \f0 retrograde orbit in the solar system.\par
\tab Answer: \b Phoebe\b0  (accept Saturn IX)\par
\par
\pard\f1 5. Answer the following about \ldblquote Bloody Kansas\rdblquote  for 10 points each:\f0\par
1. (10 points) This senator's "Crime Against Kansas" speech got him pimp-caned by Preston Brooks.\par
\tab Answer: Charles \b Sumner\b0\par
2. (10 points) John Brown was so incensed by the burning of Lawrence that he and his sons kidnapped five pro-slavery Southerners, cut off their hands, and bludgeoned them to death.  What was the name of this massacre?\par
\tab Answer:\tab the \b Pottawatomie\b0  Creek massacre\par
3. (10 points) This was the name of the pro-slavery state constitution enacted in 1857.  It took its name from the town where the constitutional convention was held.\par
\tab Answer: \b Lecompton\b0  Constitution\par
\par
6. FTPE, name these people involved with Achilles.\par
1. (10 points) Achilles abandoned the Argonauts to search for this beautiful young companion who drowned on the island of Mysia.\par
\tab Answer: \b Hylas\b0\par
2. (10 points) Achilles was roused to return to action during the Trojan War when this friend was killed by Euphorbus and Hector.\par
\tab Answer: \b Patroclus\b0\par
3. (10 points) Achilles had been rendered practically invulnerable when this Nereid, his mother, dipped him in the river Styx.\par
\tab Answer: \b Thetis\b0\par
\par
7. Name the following about a poem, FTSNOP.\par
1. (10 points) This poem consists of 5 sections, including ones entitled A Game of Chess and Death by Water. It is dedicated to Ezra Pouind, who reduced it to less than half its original length.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Waste Land\b0\par
2. (5 points) Name the author of The Waste Land.\par
\tab Answer: Thomas Sterns \b Eliot\b0\par
3. (15 points) This is the first of The Waste Land's five sections, and opens with the li\f1 n\f0 e "April is the cruellest month".\par
\tab Answer: The \b Burial of the Dead\b0  \par
\par
8. FTPE, name the following concerning the theories of Nobel Prize Winning economists.\par
1. (10 points) This winner of the 1976 Nobel is best-known for his theory of "monaterism" and for his book "Capitalism and Freedom".\par
\tab Answer: Milton \b Friedman\b0\par
2. (10 points) Named for the 1991 winner, this theorem holds that if transaction costs are negligible, an efficient solution to an externality problem will be reached if property rights are assigned, regardless of who they are assigned to.\par
\tab Answer: \b Coase\b0 's theorem\par
3. (10 points) This theorem holds that it is impossible to translate individual preferences into collective preferences without violating at least one of a list of ethically reasonable conditions, such as a ban on dictatorship or the requirement that if A is preferable to B and B to C, A must be preferable to C.\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b\f1 Arrow\rquote s Impossibility \b0\f0 Theorem\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 9. FTPE, name these S initialed chemists.\par
1. (10 points) This US chemist won the 1951 Nobel Prize with Edwin McMillan for discovery of plutonium and 8 other transuranic elements. He is the only living chemist for which an element is named.\par
\tab Answer: Glenn \b Seaborg\b0\par
2. (10 points) This Italian discovered the first synthetic element, technetium, and in 1955 discovered the antiproton.\par
\tab Answer: Emilio \b Segre\b0\par
3. (10 points) This Swede was awarded the 1926 Chemistry Nobel Prize for his invention of the ultracentrifuge.\par
\tab Answer: Theodor \b Svedberg\b0\par
\par
\pard 10. Name the following about an author and his work, FTPE.\par
1. (10 points) Subtitled "The Life of the German Composer Adrian Leverkuehn as Told by a Friend," this novel parallels both a well-known legend and the rise of the Third Reich in Germany.\par
\tab Answer: \b Doctor Faustus\b0\par
2. (10 points) Name the author of Doctor Faustus\f1 , also known for Mario and the Magician\f0 .\par
\tab Answer: Thomas \b Mann\b0\par
3. (10 points) This Thomas Mann novel tells of several generations of the title family, including Thomas and Hanno.\par
\tab Answer: \b Buddenbrooks\par
\b0\par
11. Answer these questions about the Hapsburgs for ten points each.\par
1. (10 points) The son of Philip the Handsome and Joanna the Mad, this man became ruler of the Netherlands at age 15, of Spain the next year, and was elected king of Germany three years later, thus becoming Holy Roman Emperor in 1519.\par
\tab Answer: \b Charles V \b0 (or Charles I of Spain)\par
2. (10 points) Charles V abdicated Spain and the Netherlands to this son, who built the Escorial and lost the Spanish Armada in his attempt to end Protestant power in England.\par
\tab Answer: \b Philip II\b0  of Spain\par
3. (10 points) Charles V gave up the title of Holy Roman Emperor to this younger brother, who secured Bohemia and Hungary for the Hapsburgs, made an uneasy peace with the Ottoman Empire, and overcame his early hostility towards Protestantism to sign the Peace of Augsburg in 1555.\par
\tab Answer: \b Ferdinand I\par
\b0\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 12. FTPE, name these types of mimicry.\par
1. (10 points) In this form of mimicry, a predator will mimic a harmless creature in order to easily prey on other animals.\par
\tab Answer: \b aggressive\b0  mimicry\par
2. (10 points) In this form of mimicry, several types of animal, all harmful, will take on similar appearances so that a predator will avoid them all after experiencing one of them. An example is wasps and bees.\par
\tab Answer: \b Mullerian\b0  mimicry\par
3. (10 points) In this kind of mimicry, a harmless animal will resemble a harmful one to trick predators. Butterflies provide numerous examples.\par
\tab Answer: \b Batesian\b0  mimicry\par
\par
\pard 13. Do you want this \f1 straits\f0  bonus? Damn strait! Name these straits given the geographic features they separate.\par
1. (10 points) Sicily and mainland Italy\par
\tab Answer: Strait of \b Messina\b0\par
2. (10 points) \f1 India and Sri Lanka\par
\tab Answer: \b Palk\b0  Strait\f0\par
3. (10 points) Australia and New Guinea\par
\tab Answer: \b Torres\b0  Strait\par
\par
14. 30-20-10, name the novelist from works.\par
1. (30 points) Mason & Dixon, "The Secret Integration"\par
(20 points) Vineland, V\par
(10 points) The Crying of Lot 49, Gravity's Rainbow\par
\tab Answer: Thomas \b Pyncheon\b0\par
\par
15. Answer the following questions about the history of Spain, for ten points each.\par
1. (10 points) This was the last Visigoth king of Spain. His rivals sought the aid of the Moors to defeat him, leading to the Moorish conquest of Spain in 711.\par
\tab Answer: King \b Roderick \b0 (or _Rodrigo_)\par
2. (10 points) His real name was Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar [road-REE-go dee-AHS day bee-BAR]. At times he fought for both Christians and Muslims, but was primarily concerned with taking over Valencia and making himself a de facto prince.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Cid\b0  or El \b Cid\b0\par
3. (10 points) The forces of Ferdinand and Isabella drove the Moors from Spain in 1492 by taking what city, which had been the last remaining Moorish stronghold since the fall of Seville in 1248?\par
\tab Answer:  \b Granada\par
\b0\par
16. 30-20-10, name the artist.\par
1. (30 points) After taking lessons from Pissaro, he resigned from his brokerage firm to paint full-time, his first major work being \i The Vision After the Sermon\i0 , or \i Jacob Wrestling with the Angel\i0 .\par
(20 points) He stayed with Van Gogh in Arles for several months in 1888, and became involved with a group called the Synthetists that favored simplification of line, form, and color, which would become his trademarks.\i\par
\i0 (10 points) This Frenchman is best known for traveling to Tahiti and painting \i Where Do We Come From?  What Are We?  Where Are We Going?\par
\i0\tab Answer:\tab Paul \b Gauguin\par
\b0\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 17. 5-10-15, name the following about common logarithms.\par
1. (5 points) First, what is the common log of 1,000?\par
\tab Answer: \b 3\b0\par
2. (10 points) This is the name for the integer part of a common log. It is also the name for a polynomial formed by taking the determinant of x times I minus a square matrix.\par
\tab Answer: \b characteristic\b0\par
3. (15 points) In contrast to the characteristic, this is the decimal part of a common log value. For example, since the common log of 115 is 2.0607, this is the part given by .0607.\par
\tab Answer: \b mantissa\b0\par
\par
\pard 18. Identify the composer from works, 30-20-10\par
1. (30 points) "Four Piano Blues,""Twelve Poems of Emily Dickenson", the opera The Tender Land\par
(20 points) "El Salon Mexico," "A Lincoln Protrait"\par
(10 points) "Appalachian Spring", "Fanfare for the Common Man"\par
\tab Answer: Aaron \b Copland\par
\b0\par
19. Given a description of a member of the Adams family, name him for 10 points.\par
\f1 1. (10 points) The son of John Quincy Adams, he ran for vice president as a Free Soiler in 1848 and then became Abraham Lincoln\rquote s minister to England during the Civil War.\f0\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b Charles\b0  Francis Adams\par
2. (10 points) He wrote the novels \i Democracy\i0  and \i Esther\i0  and a 9-volume history of the United States, but is better known for an autobiography which describes his "education".\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b Henry \b0 (Brooks) Adams\par
\f1 3. (10 points) This historian, Henry\rquote s brother, developed his idea that civilization rose and fell according to the growth and decline of commerce in \i\f0 The Law of Civilization and Decay\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \b Brooks \b0 Adams\par
\par
20. Answer the following about a certain poet for 10 points each.\par
\f1 1. (10 points) This member of a famous literary family replaced Longfellow as a Harvard professor, remembered Harvard\rquote s Civil War dead in his \ldblquote Commemoration Ode\rdblquote  and wrote \ldblquote The Vision of Sir Launfal.\rdblquote\f0\par
\tab Answer:\tab\b J\b0 ames Russell \b Lowell\b0\par
2. (10 points) This series of satirical poems and prose selections, written by James Russell Lowell in the Yankee dialect, dealt with the Mexican and Civil Wars.\par
\tab Answer:\tab The \b Biglow Papers\b0\par
3. (10 points) Lowell was the first editor of this Boston-based anti-slavery periodical that still publishes today.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Atlantic Monthly\par
\b0\par
\f1 21. Given a description of one of Odin\rquote s amorous adventures, name the son produced FTPE.\f0\par
1. (10 points) Odin slept with Jord, an earth giantess, to produce this strongest of the Aesir.\par
\tab ANSWER: \b Thor\b0\par
2. (10 points) The friendly frost giantess Grid gave birth to this son of Odin, who slays Fenrir at Ragnarok and thus avenges his father's death. \par
\tab ANSWER: \b Vidar\b0\par
\f1 3. (10 points) Odin took on many forms to woo the princess Rind, eventually appearing as as the healing-woman Vecha.  The result was this son, whose purpose was to avenge Balder\rquote s death by killing Hoder.\f0\par
\tab ANSWER: \b Vali\b0\par
\par
\par
\fs24\par
}
 