{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard\qj \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY FLORIDA ATLANTIC A\par \par TOSSUPS\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 1. After studying art with Benjamin West, this man dedicated himself to engineering, patenting machines for sawing marble, for spinning flax, and for twisting hemp into rope. He then entered the canal digging business, publishing "A Treatise on the Improvement of Canal Navigation\'94. While in Paris from 1797-1806 he invented a submarine but failed to interest the French government in the designs, after which he was commissioned by Robert Livingston to build his most famous creation, which was once described as \'93a backwoods saw-mill mounted on a scow and set on fire.\'94  FTP, who was this inventor whose ship Clermont was the first economically effective steamboat?\par \tab Answer: Robert \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fulton\plain\f16\fs20 \par \ql \plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \qj \plain\f16\fs20 2. This artist painted\plain\b\i\f16\fs20  \plain\f16\fs20 a series of 4 frescos based on the \plain\i\f16\fs20 Decameron\plain\f16\fs20  for the decoration of the Pucci villa. Also known for "The Madonna of the Pomegranate" and the "Mystic Nativity", his nickname was due to the corpulence of his eldest brother Giovanni, and means \'93little barrel\'94 in Italian. The artist of "Primavera", FTP, who is this 15th Century Italian painter of \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Birth of Venus\plain\f16\fs20 ?\par \ql   \tab Answer:\tab  Alessandro \plain\b\f16\fs20 Botticelli \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. When the invading fleet appeared in the Bay of Phalerum before this battle, they were sent a false message by a spy which led them to blockade the Bay of Eleusis with a thin line of 1,000 ships.  The Greek fleet of 370 vessels attacked and broke the line, resulting in the loss of 500 Persians ships, while the Greeks under Themistocles only lost 40 ships.  FTP, name this major 480 BC naval battle in a strait southwest of Athen.\par \tab Answer: Battle of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Salamis\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Salamis Bay \plain\f16\fs20 or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Straits of Salamis\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 4. In this play, the female protagonist's young son dies only a year after her husband\'92s death, prompting a five year trip to Paris. The plot is set in motion by the need to pay for this trip and for Anya's return home. In response to this need for money, Gaev does nothing but play billiards and Varya merely prays. Lopakhin suggests a way to save the estate, but Madame Ranevsky rejects the plan, and her estate is lost.  FTP, name this play by Anton Chekhov, in which the title object is eventually chopped down.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cherry Orchard \plain\f16\fs20 (or Vishnovy sad\plain\f16\fs20\ul )\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 5. This Asian body of water receives the Red River, and its main ports include Ben Thuy, Haiphong, and Pei-hai. Measuring 300 miles long by 150 miles wide, it is the northwest arm of the South China Sea bounded by China to the north, Hainan Island to the east, and Vietnam to the west. FTP, what is this gulf notorious for a torpedo attack against two U.S. destroyers in 1964?\par \tab Answer: Gulf of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Tonkin\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 6. This equation behind this physical law was amended by Newton to take the form 4 pi squared a cubed over T squared equals G times the quantity m plus m sub p. First published in the work "Harmonices mundi" in 1619, like its two partners it was derived from data found in its namesake's "Rudolphine Tables". Stating that the square of a planet's period is proportional to the cube of its mean distance from the sun, FTP, what is this famous law of planetary motion?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Kepler's Third\plain\f16\fs20  Law of Planetary Motion\par \par 7. This composer of the "Alto Rhapsody" and "Love-Song Waltzes" expressed his artistic credo in the words, "If we can not compose as beautifully as Mozart and Haydn, let us at least try to compose as purely."  A meticulous worker, he did not complete the first of his four symphonies until age 43. Composer of "Variations on a Theme of Haydn" and the "Four Serious Songs", he is better-known for the "Tragic" and "Academic Festival" Overtures. FTP, name this composer of "A German Requiem" and a famous "lullaby".\par \tab Answer: Johannes \plain\b\f16\fs20 Brahms\plain\f16\fs20  \par \par 8. The death of this poet's second wife Frances Appleton prevented him from working for several years, but he eventually completed the religious poem "Christus". Renowned for his skill with languages, the early romanticism of such early works as "Outre-Mer", "Voices of the Night", and "Hyperion" soon gave way to a fascination with narrative forms and European meters, as seen in works like "Tales of a Wayside Inn". FTP, who was this 19th century poet, the author of "Evangeline" and "Hiawatha"?\par \tab Answer: Henry Wadsworth \plain\b\f16\fs20 Longfellow\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 9. The region that now makes up this country was conquered by Rome in 58 BC, and afterwards was controlled by Swabia and Burgandy until the Holy Roman Empire gained the region in 1033. The march towards independence started with a 1291 defensive league formed by the states of Uri, Schwyz, and Unterwalden, which resulted in virtual independence from the Hapsburgs in 1499, with official independence recognized in the Peace of Westphalia. An alpine nation of 7 million divided into cantons, FTP, what is this country known for its neutrality?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Switzerland\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \par \qj \plain\f16\fs20 10. Famous scenes in the film include the "walls of Jericho" and the hitchhiking lesson, and sales of men's undershirts supposedly plummeted because of its bare-chested star.  In this screwball romantic comedy, a rich heiress runs away from her wedding and winds up on a cross-country bus with a wisecracking reporter.  Directed by Frank Capra, it starred Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable.  FTP, name this 1934 film, the first film to sweep the Academy Awards for Best Actor, Actress, and Picture?\par \ql \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 It Happened One Night\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 11. Extant classes of this phylum of animals include Crinoidea and Stelleroidea. They have a simple nervous system consisting of nerve rings, a rudimentary circulatory system, and no brain, and movement is achieved using a rounded muscular sac called an ampulla. Unique in their posession of a water vascular system and tube feet, their spiny skin gives them their name, and many of them have pentaradial symmetry. FTP, name this phylum which includes sea cucumbers, sea urchins, and starfish.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Echinodermata\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Echinoderms\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 12. He wore a chain of seashells around his neck and a chain of rattles around his ankles, and he often wore a conical cap made from the skin of a jaguar.  He was once aided by vultures, an eagle, a coyote, a wolf, and hundreds of moles in digging up his slain father, the Sun.  He taught the Toltecs of Tula how to raise corn, but he was forced to flee by Tezcatlipoca.  FTP, name this Toltec and Aztec deity known as the plumed serpent god who was once confused with Hernando Cortez.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Quetzalcoatl\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. Toward the end of this novel, the title character takes in Sally Godfrey\'92s daughter to raise alongside her own son, Billy, and her husband decides to be faithful to her.  About 900 pages earlier, she is employed as a servant to Lady B, but after Lady B's death she is kidnapped by Lady B's son. However, the protagonist wins Mr. B's respect with her tenacious resistance, and they are soon married. Subtitled "Virtue Rewarded", FTP, what is this first major epistolary novel, which along with "Clarissa" is probably the best-known work by Samuel Richardson? \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Pamela\plain\f16\fs20 , or Virtue Rewarded\par \par \qj 14. In 1930 this man led a 200-mile march to the sea to collect salt in defiance of a government monopoly, marking a renewal of his protest efforts. Trained as a lawyer in London, he spent 21 years in South Africa opposing discrimination on the part of the South African government. Assassinated by Nathuram Godse in 1948, he had earlier become famous for his non-cooperation and civil disobedience in India. FTP, name this Indian nationalist leader known as "Mohatma"?\par \tab Answer: Mohandas Karamchand (Mahatma) \plain\b\f16\fs20 Gandhi\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \ql 15. Developed by Godfrey Hounsfield, the first working version of the device to produce them was built in 1972. In the device to make them, a lead collimator focuses a fan-shaped x-ray beam which is then rotated, with the transmitted fan beam picked up by an arc of detectors. The measurements are then reconstructed into a tomograph providing a 2-dimensional X-ray picture revealing a slice of the body inside the device. FTP, what is this type of medical scan?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 CAT\plain\f16\fs20  scan or \plain\b\f16\fs20 CT\plain\f16\fs20  scan or \plain\b\f16\fs20 computerized axial tomography\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. This woman's writings include the children\'92s story \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Eagle and the Wren\plain\f16\fs20  and the books \plain\i\f16\fs20 In the Shadow of Man\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Visions of Caliban\plain\f16\fs20 .  The holder of a PhD in Ethology, she is an explorer-in-residence for the National Geographic Society, as well as the only non-Tanzanian to win the Medal of Tanzania.  She first traveled to Lake Tanganyika at age 26 in 1960, where she established the Gombe Stream Research Centre.  FTP, name this anthropologist, famous for her years of observations of chimpanzees.\par \tab Answer: Jane \plain\b\f16\fs20 Goodall\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 17. It reached the height of its power when it defeated Waldemar IV of Denmark and signed the favorable Treaty of Straslund.  It still met as late as 1669, but it had not been a major power for over a century.  It began in part to facilitate trade of salt and herring for Kiel and Lubeck, but a 1241 mutual defense pact between Lubeck and Hamburg is considered its true beginning.  Consisting of up to 160 members, FTP, name this powerful league which controlled trade in the Baltic and North Sea regions for centuries.\par \tab Answer: the \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hanseatic\plain\f16\fs20  League or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hansa\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 18. Not easily oxidized, these compounds can be synthesized by using an organolithium reagent on a nitrile, followed by hydrolysis of the product.  Useful as solvents and flavorings, they can also be made by oxidizing a secondary alcohol.  They do not affect Fehling's solution and do not react with the Tollens reagent, which differentiates them from aldehydes.  FTP, name this class of compounds with a carbonyl group between two aryl groups, the simplest of which is acetone.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 ketone(s)\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 19. The title character of this work takes command of the treasury, declares the assumption of civil authority, and fights off an advance by the Scythians.  Lampito, a Spartan, was the first to support the title character's plan, but some supporters eventually used fear of the snakes and owls of the Acropolis as an excuse to abandon their cause, while others resorted to fake pregnancies. Eventually, the Spartans and Athenians did meet, but failed to sign an agreement ending their war.  FTP, name this play by Aristophanes, in which women withhold sex as leverage to end war.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Lysistrata\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 20. Sections of this philosophical work include \'93Of Heresy,\'94 \'93Of the Priesthood of Christ,\'94 \'93The Immutability of God,\'94 and \'93Of the Substance of the Angels Absolutely Considered.\'94 Concluding with a section detailing the role of Jesus and the Sacraments in the soul's salvation, it opens with a discussion of God's existence, including the author's famous "Five Proofs". Left incomplete when its author experienced a great change while saying mass in December 1273, it still provides a thorough survey of Scholastic thought and serves as the basis for the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church.  FTP, name this massive work by Thomas Aquinas.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Summa Theologica \plain\f16\fs20 or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Summa totius theologiae\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \qj 21. The possibilty of this phenomenon was discussed in a famous report by Turco, Toon, Ackerman, Pollack, and Sagan.  It may result from great fires, wind, and large quantities of smoke and dust.  Theoretically, these effects could reduce incoming solar radiation, resulting in the extreme cooling of the earth\'92s surface, possibly to -15 to -25 Celsius.  FTP, name this two-word \'93seasonal\'94 term, described as a severe deterioration of climate that might take place as a result of multiple H-bomb explosions on the earth\'92s surface. \par \tab Answer:\tab  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Nuclear Winter\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \par \ql \plain\f16\fs20 22. As a book editor in the 1960s, this graduate of Howard University worked on the writings of Toni Cade Bambara, Gayl Jones, and several other black female writers.  During this period, she wrote her first novel, about the experiences of young black girls struggling to define themselves, \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Bluest Eye, \plain\f16\fs20 and she later won a Pulitzer Prize for her novel about a woman who tried to kill her children rather than allow them to be sent back into slavery.  FTP, name this author of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Jazz\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 Sula\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Beloved\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Toni \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Morrison \plain\f16\fs20 (or Chloe Anthony \plain\f16\fs20\ul Wofford\plain\f16\fs20 )\par \par 23. A mostly lowland nation except in the dry northern sections, it has the largest artificial lake in the world, Lake Volta.  Gold is a leading export, of which the Ashanti Goldfields Corporation is the chief producer.  The Oti river forms part of its border with Togo, while the Black Volta separates it from Burkina Faso and Ivory Coast.  The home nation of the winner of the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize, FTP, name this African nation once known as Gold Coast, with capital at Accra.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ghana\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \qj \plain\b\f16\fs20 \page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY FLORIDA ATLANTIC A\par \par \ql BONUSES\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 1. Name these poetic forms, FTP each:\par A.  The major types of this 14-line poem are the Elizabethan and Petrarchan.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 sonnet\par \plain\f16\fs20 B.  This 7-line stanza form in iambic pentameter has rhyme scheme a b a b b c c, and it was frequently used by Chaucer.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 rime royal\par \plain\f16\fs20 C.  Brought from Italy to England by Thomas Wyatt, this appropriately-named stanza form has rhyme scheme a b a b a b c c. One of its most famous uses is in Byron\'92s \plain\i\f16\fs20 Don Juan\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 ottava rima\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. FTPE, name the following about the Teapot Dome scandal.\par 1. (10 points) This New Mexico politician secretly leased two military oil reserves while Secretary of the Interior, and later went to jail for actions related to the scandal.\par \tab Answer: Albert \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fall\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) It was soon revealed that this recipient of the Teapot Dome lease had loaned Albert Fall large sums of money.\par \tab Answer: Harry F. \plain\b\f16\fs20 Sinclair\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Like Harry Sinclair, Edward Doheny loaned Fall large sums of money to lease the naval oil reserve at this California site.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Elk Hills\plain\f16\fs20 , California\par \par 3. Name these types of isomers from a brief definition, FTP each:\par A.  A class of stereoisomer, these have the same number of ligands and bonds but differ in the relative positions of the ligands.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 geometric\plain\f16\fs20  isomers\par B.  Another subclass of stereroisomers, these are chiral molecules which are nonsuperimposable mirror images of each other.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 enantiomers \plain\f16\fs20 (prompt on \'93optical\'94 isomers)\par C.  A class of isomers including coordination and linkage isomers, these contain the same number and kinds of atoms, but differ in the bonds that are present.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 structural\plain\f16\fs20  isomers\par \par 4. Name these pre-Socratic philosophers, for 10 points each:\par A.  The founder of the Miletian school, he believed that water was the fundamental substance of all things.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Thales\plain\f16\fs20  of Miletus\par B.  A leader of the Eleatics, he held that the multiplicity of things, their changing forms and motions, are illusory images of a single Reality.  A Platonic dialogue is named for him.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Parmenides\plain\f16\fs20  of Elea\par C.  Living from about 540 to 480 BC, he believed that fire is the basic material and that things are in a constant state of change.  He may be best known for his analogy about the impossibility of stepping into the same river twice.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Heraclitus\plain\f16\fs20  (or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Heracleitus)\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 5. Identify these knights of the Round Table, for the stated number of points:\par A.  For 5 points, this son of King Ban of Benwick became the champion and favourite knight of Guenevere.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Lancelot\par \plain\f16\fs20 B.  For 10 points, this knight avenged his father's death by killing King Pellinore, and also slew his mother's lover Sir Lamerok. The second-greatest knight of the Round Table, and he was mortally wounded by Lancelot.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Gawain\par \plain\f16\fs20 C.  For 15 points, this knight hurls Excalibur into the lake and is the last to see King Arthur alive.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bedivere\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 6. Name these Jane Austen novels from some of their female characters, FTSNOP.\par A.  (5 points) Elizabeth and Jane Bennet\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Pride and Prejudice\plain\f16\fs20 \par B.  (10 points) Catherine Morland\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Northanger Abbey\plain\f16\fs20 \par C.  (10 points) Anne Elliott\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Persuasion\par \plain\f16\fs20 D.  (5 points) Miss Woodhouse\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Emma\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \sl240 7. FTPE, stuff about a WWI battle.\par 1. (10 points) Fought from July 31 until November 10, 1917, this battle in a Belgian village has become a notorious symbol for the horrors of trench warfare. It is also known as the Third Battle of Ypres.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Passchendaele\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This British field-marshal led the assault on Passchendaele, and despite huge losses at the Somme he used the same strategy of frontal assaults with large numbers, but this strategy led to mass slaughter when rains turned the battlefield into a sea of mud.\par \tab Answer: Douglas \plain\b\f16\fs20 Haig\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Although Canadians finally made it into the village on the final day of fighting, this nominal gain was surrendered in the April 1918 offensive led by this German general, who with Hindenburg exercised a virtual military dictatorship in Germany.\par \tab Answer: Erich \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ludendorff\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard\qj 8. FTPE, name the artist from paintings.\par 1. (10 points) The Raft of the Medusa\par \tab Answer: Theodore \plain\b\f16\fs20 Gericault\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) The Apotheosis of Homer\par \tab Answer: Jean-Auguste-Dominique \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ingres\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) The Death of Marat, The Death of Socrates\par \tab Answer: Jacques-Louis \plain\b\f16\fs20 David\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 9. For 10 points apiece, given a former Soviet republic, name its national capital.\par A.  Latvia\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Riga\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 B.  Tajikistan\tab \par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\b\f16\fs20 Dushanbe\par \plain\f16\fs20 C.  Uzbekistan\par \pard\qj \li720 Answer:\tab \plain\b\f16\fs20 Tashkent\par \pard\qj \plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \ql \plain\f16\fs20 10. 5-10-15, name these gravitational physicists.\par 1. (5 points) Probably the most famous modern gravitational physicist, this man showed that black holes whould emit his namesake radiation, and is the author of "A Brief History of Time".\par \tab Answer: Stephen \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hawking\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Co-author with Hawking of "The Nature of Space and Time" and the singularity theorems, he is probably best-known as the author of "The Emperor's New Mind".\par \tab Answer: Roger \plain\b\f16\fs20 Penrose\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (15 points) This man is known for his studies of instantaneous travel through wormholes. The author of "Black Holes and Time Warps", he won a subscription to "Penthouse" in a famous bet with Hawking concerning the nature of black holes.\par \tab Answer: Kip \plain\b\f16\fs20 Thorne\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 11. Identify these possibly related items from literature, FTPE:\par A.  The title character of this Dostoevsky novel is the childlike and well-meaning Prince Myshkin.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Idiot\par \plain\f16\fs20 B. This motley-dressed Shakespearean character travels with his master dispensing strangely wise advice, although his master refers to him as a "pestilent gall".\par \tab Answer: King \plain\b\f16\fs20 Lear's Fool\plain\f16\fs20 \par C.  The title character of this 1798 Wordsworth poem is the simple-minded Johnny, loved by Betty Foy.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Idiot Boy\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 12. Name these ancient Persian rulers, FTPE:\par A.  (10 points) Reigning from 558-529 BC, he conquered Lydia and Babylonia.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cyrus\plain\f16\fs20  the Great (do not accept \'93Cyrus the Younger\'94)\par B.  (10 points) Unfortunately for him, this man gained the throne in 336 BC, in the same year as Alexander the Great.  Defeated several times by Alexander, he was assassinated in Bactria in 330 BC.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Darius III\par \plain\f16\fs20 C.  (10 points) This ruler from 529-522 BC murdered his brother Smerdis and left to conquer Egypt.  While he was away, a false Smerdis seized his throne in 522, and he died on the return from Egypt.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cambyses II\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 13. Provide these biological terms, all of which begin with the same letter, FTP each:\par A.  A hereditary inability to form pigment, resulting in abnormally light coloration.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 albinism\plain\f16\fs20  (accept \plain\f16\fs20\ul albino\plain\f16\fs20  or related terms)\par B. Caused by the release of histamine and similar substances, this is an abnormal immune response that occurs when an individual previously exposed to an antigen is re-exposed to it, causing either a localized reaction or more general health problems like difficulty in breathing and possible heart failure.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 anaphylaxis\plain\f16\fs20  (do not accept anaphylactic shock)\par C.  This type of speciation occurs when one population becomes geographically separated from the rest of the species and subsequently evolves.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 allopatric \plain\f16\fs20 speciation\par \par 14. Name the following about an author, FTPE.\par A. (10 points) This author railed against injustice and the tyranny of Napoleon III in the poetry collection "The Punishments". He is also known for "Hans of Iceland" and "The Man Who Laughs".\par \tab Answer: Victor \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hugo\plain\f16\fs20 \par B.  (10 points) Principal characters in this Hugo novel include the archdeacon Claude Frollo and the gypsy dancer Esmeralda.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hunchback of Notre Dame\par \plain\f16\fs20 C.  (10 points) Premiering amidst conflict between Classicists and Romanticists, both Don Carlos and Ruy Gomez desire Do\'f1a Sol in this 1830 play, but she loves the title bandit.  The play was adapted into a Verdi opera.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hernani\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 15. Name these ideal thermodynamic cycles from brief descriptions, FTP each.\par A.  Named for its French developer, it has two isothermal transfers of work, alternating with adiabatic expansion and compression stages.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Carnot \plain\f16\fs20 cycle\par B.  Similar to a common gasoline engine, its steps are adiabatic compression, heating at constant volume, adiabatic expansion, and cooling at constant volume.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Otto \plain\f16\fs20 cycle or \plain\b\f16\fs20 air-standard Otto \plain\f16\fs20 cycle\par C.  Named for an automotive pioneer, it has two isentropic steps alternating with isochoric and isobaric steps.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Diesel\plain\f16\fs20  cycle or \plain\b\f16\fs20 air-standard Diesel \plain\f16\fs20 cycle\par \par 16. Given the names of films, for 10 points each, give the name of the international film director.\par A. \plain\i\f16\fs20 La Dolce Vita, 8 1/2\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Answer: Federico \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fellini\par \plain\f16\fs20 B.  \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Rules of the Game \plain\f16\fs20 and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Grand Illusion\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \pard \li720 \plain\f16\fs20 Answer:\tab Jean \plain\b\f16\fs20 Renoir\par \pard \plain\f16\fs20 C.  \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Little Soldier\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 Alphaville\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Breathless\par \pard \li720 \plain\f16\fs20 Answer:\tab Jean-Luc \plain\b\f16\fs20 Godard\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \pard \par \plain\f16\fs20 17. For each of these poetic excerpts, name both the poem and the poet; 5 points for one and 15 for both.  Hint: each poem is the poet\'92s lone popular work.\par A.  The title object \'93may in Summer wear / A nest of robins in her hair; / Upon whose bosom snow has lain; / Who lives intimately with rain.\'94\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Trees, \plain\f16\fs20 by Sergeant Joyce \plain\b\f16\fs20 Kilmer\par \plain\f16\fs20 B.  \'93It matters not how strait the gate, / How charged with punishments the scroll, / I am the master of my fate, / I am the captain of my soul.\'94\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Invictus\plain\f16\fs20 , by William Ernest \plain\b\f16\fs20 Henley\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par \qj 18. Name these people recognized for their achievements by the NAACP, FTPE. \par A.  The first state field secretary of the NAACP in Mississippi, he was murdered by Byron De La Beckwith in 1963.\par \pard\qj \li720 Answer:\tab Medgar \plain\b\f16\fs20 Evers\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard\qj B.  He interviewed Malcolm X for \plain\i\f16\fs20 Playboy\plain\f16\fs20 , and these conversations were expanded into an acclaimed "autobiography" of the minister.\par \pard\qj \li720 Answer:\tab Alex \plain\b\f16\fs20 Haley\par \pard \plain\f16\fs20 C.  This soprano studied at Juilliard before finding success on Broadway in \plain\i\f16\fs20 Four Saints in Three Acts \plain\f16\fs20 in 1952, and as the female lead in \plain\i\f16\fs20 Porgy and Bess \plain\f16\fs20 the same year. \par \qj \tab Answer:\tab  Leotyne \plain\b\f16\fs20 Price\par \ql \plain\f16\fs20 \par \qj 19. The Mercury program featured 7 astronauts.  You'll get 5 points for naming two, and 5 more for each additional member, of the Mercury 7 astronauts.\par \pard \li2160\fi-1440 Answer:\tab Alan B. \plain\b\f16\fs20 Shepard\plain\f16\fs20 , Jr., Virgil I. "Gus" \plain\b\f16\fs20 Grissom\plain\f16\fs20 , John H. \plain\b\f16\fs20 Glenn\plain\f16\fs20 . Jr., M. Scott \plain\b\f16\fs20 Carpenter\plain\f16\fs20 , Walter M. \plain\b\f16\fs20 Schirra \plain\f16\fs20 Jr., L. Gordon \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cooper\plain\f16\fs20 , Jr., Donald "Deke" \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Slayton\par \pard \plain\f16\fs20 \par 20. The 2001 Nobel Prize for Physics went to three scientists who generated a fifth state of matter in 1995.\par A.  (10 points) FTP, name this state, predicted by an Indian and a German physicist in 1924.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bose-Einstein Condensate\plain\f16\fs20 \par B.  (5 points each) FFPE, name any two of the three scientists who shared the award.\par \tab Answer: Eric \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cornell\plain\b\i\f16\fs20 , \plain\f16\fs20 Carl E. \plain\b\f16\fs20 Wieman\plain\f16\fs20 , and Wolfgang \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ketterle\par \plain\f16\fs20 C. (10 points) FTP, Cornell and Wieman evaporative and laser cooling techniques applied to the vapor of what element to create their initial Bose-Einstein condensate in 1995?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 rubidium\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 21. On October 17th, the winner of the 2001 Booker Prize was announced.  For 10 points each:\par A.  Name this Australian writer, who also won in 1988 for his novel \plain\i\f16\fs20 Oscar and Lucinda\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Peter \plain\b\f16\fs20 Carey\plain\f16\fs20 \par B.  Carey\'92s new book dealt with what famous Australian outlaw and his gang?\par \tab Answer: Ned \plain\b\f16\fs20 Kelly\par \plain\f16\fs20 C.  Carey became only the second 2-time winner of the Booker.  Name the other 2-time winner, the author of "Life and Times of Michael K" and "Disgrace".\par \tab Answer: J(ohn) M(ichael) \plain\b\f16\fs20 Coetzee\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 22. 30-20-10, name the philosophical text.\par 1. (30 points) Quotes from it include "When the uncarved block shatters it becomes vessels," and "The way that can be spoken of is not the constant way; the name that can be named is not the constant name."\par (20 points) A short work of 81-paragraphs containing about 5,000 characters, it was supposedly written when a gatekeeper urged its author to record his wisdom, resulting in a work about union with the absolute and how to survive in chaotic times.\par (10 points) One of the chief Chinese Taoist texts, it is attributed to Lao-Tzu.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Tao Te Ching \plain\f16\fs20 [dow-day-ching]\par \plain\f16 \par \par }
