{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \tx360 \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY FLORIDA A\par \par TOSSUPS\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 1. These compounds can be made by fusing a sulphonic acid salt with sodium hydroxide and adding sulphuric acid to liberate them. Unlike normal alcohols, these compounds are acidic because of the presence of an aromatic ring. Named for a compound with formula C6 H5 OH, FTP, what are these compounds containing a hydroxyl group bound directly to a carbon atom in a benzene ring?\par \tab \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 phenols\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. After the failure of her father\'92s utopian community Fruitlands this author began supporting her family by writing Gothic works like \'93Pauline\'92s Passion and Punishment\'94 and \'93Perilous Play\'94 under the pseudonym A.N. Barnard.. Author of \'93Flower Fables\'94, her first success as a serious author came with \'93Hospital Sketches\'94, describing her time as a nurse in the Civil War. FTP, who is this author of \'93Little Women\'94?\par \tab Answer: Louise May \plain\b\f16\fs20 Alcott\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard 3. The Kern River Canyon is on the west of this mountain, while its precipitous streams enter Owens Valley on the east. Its summit is a gently sloping tablelike surface notable for its lack of erosion, and was first reached in 1873 by A.H. Johnson, C.D. Begole and J. Lucas. Located on the Inyo-Tulare county line at the east border of Sequoia National Park, it rises to a height of 14,494 feet, making it the culminating summit of the Sierra Nevadas. FTP, what is this mountain, the highest in the contiguous United States?\par \tab Answer: Mount \plain\b\f16\fs20 Whitney\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \tx360 4. During this war a militant Indian faction called the Red Sticks killed 533 frontiersmen in the Fort Mims Massacre. Later that fall, the villages of Talladega and Tallashatchee were destroyed, and by the next spring, 1000 warriors congregated at a village on a peninsula in the Tallapoosa River, where they were destroyed in the Battle of Horseshoe Bend. FTP, what was this war named for the Native American tribe defeated by Andrew Jackson during the War of 1812?\line \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Creek\plain\f16\fs20  War (Prompt on the War of 1812)\line \par 5. The Lesser ones were held in the early Spring at Agrae and involved seed trays called kernos, while the Greater ones were held in the early fall at sowing time, and usually lasted 9 days. Starting with Assembly day, the second day was the Halade, when initiates raced to the sea with a piglet under their arm and bathed themselves for purification, while on the Pompe day the initiates walked 14 miles on the Sacred Way from Athens. FTP this is a description of what mystery religion of Ancient Greece which was performed in honor of Demeter and her daughter?\par \pard \tx720 \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Eleusinian\plain\f16\fs20  Mysteries\par \pard \par \pard \sl240 6. This philosopher died while working on his Compendium of Theology, and a legend holds that he possessed a brazen head which would indicate when his projects would succeed by talking to him. He gained the reputation as an erratic genius for his scientific speculations, and he was declared a heretic by the Franciscans in 1278 due to his advocacy that the Roman Catholic church should embrace all the sciences. Famous for his Opus majus, Opus minus, and Opus tertium, FTP, who was this English philosopher known as "Doctor Mirabilis"?\par \tab Answer: Roger \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bacon\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \tx360 7. This man founded the first laboratory of aerodynamics at Auteuil in 1912. His first notable achievement was his 1858 iron bridge over the Garonne, and he went on to specialize in metal construction, building the Garabit viaduct, the moveable dome of the Nice Observatory, and the framework for Bartholdi\'92s Statue of Liberty. FTP, who was this \'93magician of iron\'94, best known for the Paris tower which bears his name?\par \tab Answer: (Alexandre-)Gustave \plain\b\f16\fs20 Eiffel\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 8. Serialized in the magazine All the Year Round, the scheme at the center of this novel\'92s plot is hatched by Count Fosco and Sir Percival Glyde, and is eventually solved by Walter Hartright and his lover Marian. In an attempt to gain the money of his wife Laura Fairlie, Glyde plans to replace her with the lookalike Anne Catherick, who is dying in a mental asylum. FTP, this describes what Victorian detective novel by Wilkie Collins?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Woman in White\plain\f16\fs20 \line \par \pard 9. In addition to his more famous endeavours, this man was a skilled calligrapher who in 1540 published a concise manual on Italic lettering. He gained a mastery of mathematics and astronomy under the guidance of Gemma Frisius and learned of engraving from Gaspar a Myrica, who would become his partners in his life's work, which included a series of publications intended to describe the creation and history of the world, coining the term atlas to describe it. Using the graceful Italic lettering which became his trademark, he gained fame for constructing maps of Palestine, his native Flanders, and the world, the latter of which he presented in a double-heart shape. FTP, who was this cartographer who devised the cylindrical projection named for him?\par \tab Answer: Gerardus \plain\b\f16\fs20 Mercator\plain\f16\fs20  (or Gerardus de \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cremer\plain\f16\fs20 )\par \par \pard \tx360 10. In this event\'92s aftermath, Albert Parsons, George Engel, and Adolph Fischer were hanged, while Louis Lingg was found dead in his jail cell. Judge Joseph Gary had sentenced these people, as well as August Spies, as accessories before and after the fact in the deaths of seven people as a rally in support of a 8-hour work day. FTP, name this violent confrontation between police and labor supporters in Chicago in 1886. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Haymarket\plain\f16\fs20  Square Riot\line \par \pard 11. The title of this book comes from its introductory piece, which describes the author\'92s farmhouse Arrowhead. The character Bannadonna figures promenantly in the second story, \'93The Bell Tower\'94, which is followed by The Lightning-Rod Man and The Encantadas. Most famous for its last two stories, Benito Cereno and Bartleby the Scrivener, FTP, what is this collection of \'93tales\'94 by Herman Melville?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Piazza Tales\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 12. In the aftermath of this battle the losing forces were forced to retreat over a single bridge which was prematurely destroyed, trapping 30,000 troops. Initially, the attacks by Blucher from the north and Schwarzenberg from the south were unsuccessful, but the arrival of Russian and Swedish troops combined by the defection of Saxon forces led to Napoleon's defeat. Breaking French power in Poland and Germany, FTP< what was this October 1813 battle, known as "the battle of the nations"?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Leipzig\plain\f16\fs20  (prompt on Battle of the Nations)\par \par 13. This man\'92s autobiography was 1963\'92s Memories, Dreams, and Reflections. Originally an assistant at the Burgholzli Clinic under Eugen Bleuler, he went on to develop the concept of shadow, the repressed and guilt laden part of the personality, as well as animus and anima, the male and female parts of the personality. He coined the terms extrovert and introvert in 1923\'92s Psychological Types, while his broader application of the libido signaled his break with Freud. FTP, who was this Swiss analytical psychologist who developed the theory of the collective unconscious and wrote 1912\'92s Psychology of the Unconscious?\par \tab Answer: Carl Gustav \plain\b\f16\fs20 Jung\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. This device was first developed to measure the wavelength of light, and is used today to measure the diameter of nearby stars, test flat surfaces, determine the indices of refraction of materials, and measure small distances. The echelon version consists of a stack of glass plates, while the Fabry-Perot type uses a pair of half-silvered mirrors to produce circular fringes. FTP, name this device most famously used by Michelson and Morley to disprove the existence of ether?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Interferometer\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \tx360 \par 15. A major moment in this novel occurs when the protagonist, lost in the snow, has a vision of a classical temple in which two hags are eating a child. Having come to the Haus Berghof to visit his cousin Joachim Ziemessen, the discovery of a pulmonary defect by Dr, Behrens prompts him to stay for seven years, during which time he falls in love with Claudia Chauchat and argues with Settembrini and Pepperkorn. Set at a tuberculosis clinic, FTP, what is this novel about Hans Castorp, the best-known work by Thoman Mann?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Magic Mountain\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. The principal theme of this musical work is used in second movement of Verdi\'92s Manzoni Requiem, in Berlioz\'92s Symphanie Fantasique, and in the third movement of Mozart\'92s Requiem. Probably composed by Thomas of Celano, it is based on the Vulgate version of Joel 2:31, and is used in the mass for the dead and on All Souls' Day. A medieval hymn on the Last Judgement. FTP, name this famous hymn whose name is Latin for "Day of Wrath."\line \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Dies Irae\plain\f16\fs20  (prompt on Day of Wrath)\par \pard \par \pard \tx360 17. This man died of tuberculosis in 1887 in Glenwood Springs, California. Raised in Georgia, he graduated in 1872 from the Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery. Discovering that he was better at faro than tooth extraction, he lived in places as varied as Pueblo, Dallas, and Las Vegas, at some point marriying Kate Elder. Befriending Wyatt Earp in Dodge City, he fought against the Clanton gang at the OK Corrall. FTP, name this part-time dentist of the American West.\line \tab Answer: John Henry "Doc" \plain\b\f16\fs20 Holliday\plain\f16\fs20 \line \par \pard 18. Salts ofd this acid produced during metabolism can accumulate for form kidney stones, and its accumulation in the synovial fluilds of joints causes gout. The major form in which metabolic nitrogen is execreted from the body, it has formula C3 H4 N4 O3. FTP, what is this acid, the end product of purine breakdown in most mammals?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Uric\plain\f16\fs20  acid\par \par \pard \tx360 19. This figure is depicted as having four arms, in which he carries a club, shell, discus, and lotus. Also known as Hari and Narayana, at various times he takes the forms Kurma, Varaha, Narasimha, Matsya, Vamena, Rama, Krishna, and the Buddha. FTP, who is this kindly preserver god of Hinduism?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Vishnu\plain\f16\fs20  (prompt on Hari or Narayana)\par \par \pard 20. Characters in this play include Doctor Pinch, the ludicrously fat maid Luce, and the just Duke Solinus. When it opens, the Syracuse merchant Egeon has been sentenced to death; meanwhile his son is involved in a shipwreck which also involves his lost brother. Confusion ensues due to the fact that each brother shares the name Antipholus and employs a servent named Dromio. FTP, what is this Shakespearean play whose title indicates the confusion involved?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Comedy of Errors\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 21. One myth holds that this mythological figure was worshipped as the god Virbius in Italy after being brought back to life by Asclepius. Hating luzury, he worshipped only Artemis, causing him to incur the wrath of Aphrodite. After his mother Antiope died, his father Theseus married Phaedra, who fell in love with him. He rejected her advances, but before she killed herself Phaedra accused him of violating her, leading Theseus to banish him and pray to Poseidon for his death. FTP, who was this man dragged to death by his own horses?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hippolytus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \tx360 22. Poems by this author include Tentative Description of a Dinner Given to Promote the Impeachment of President Eisenhower, and One Thousand Fearful Words for Fidel Castro. Author of "Pictures of the Gone World", he was the founder of the City Lights  Bookstore in San Francisco in 1953, and published many of the works of the Beat poets. FTP, name this author of A Coney Island of the Mind.\line \tab \tab Answer: Lawrence \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ferlinghetti\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 23. Its publication was advised by Sergey Witte, and it guaranteed freedom of speech, press and assembly; a broad franchise; and a legislature that had to approve legislation before it could become law. Prompted by a disastrous war with Japan and the Bloody Sunday uprising, FTP, what was this 1905 letter in which Nicholas II ended autocracy in Russia, named for the month in which it was issued?\par \tab \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 October Manifesto\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\b\f16\fs20 \page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY FLORIDA A\par \par \pard BONUSES\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 1. Identify these fin-de-siecle American novels from descriptions FTPE.\line 1. (10 points) The title character of this William Dean Howells work gets rich, moves to Boston's Beacon Hill, disgraces himself by getting drunk at a party, and loses all his money, but not before realizing the importance of ethical principles.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Rise of Silas Lapham\plain\f16\fs20 \line 2. (10 points) This novel tells of the Civil War experiences of Henry Fleming.\line \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Red Badge of Courage\plain\f16\fs20 \line 3. (10 points) The first of a projected trilogy on the wheat business, this Frank Norris novel depicts the power struggle between California wheat farmers and the railroad industry.\line \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Octopus\plain\f16\fs20 \line \line 2. From an extremely brief description, name these laws of physics, FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) Every action has an equal and opposite reaction.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Newton\'92s Third\plain\f16\fs20  Law\par 2. (10 points) Planets orbit the sun in elliptical paths, with the sun at one focus of the ellipse.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Kepler\'92s First\plain\f16\fs20  Law of Planetary Motion\tab  \par 3. (10 points) Absolute zero cannot be reached in any process in a finite number of steps\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Third Law of Thermodynamics\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. You can\'92t deny Zeus was a playah. FTPE, given a child of Zeus, name the mother.\par 1. (10 points) Helen\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Leda\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Heracles\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Alcmena\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Sarpedon\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Laodamia\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 4. Name the following about South American liberation from clues FTPE.\line 1. (10 points) The son of Ambrosio, the governor of Chile and Viceroy of Peru, this man led Chile to independence, but was soon deposed by the Catholic Church and large landowners.\par \tab Answer: Bernardo \plain\b\f16\fs20 O'Higgins\plain\f16\fs20 \line 2. (10 points) The first president of Bolivia and Bolivar's chief lieutenant, his victory at Pichincha drove the Spanish from Ecuador.\line \tab Answer: Antonio Jose de \plain\b\f16\fs20 Sucre\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Although his reign was largely peaceful and popular, this emperor of Brazil was overthrown in a largely bloodless coup in 1889 due to a law freeing the slaves.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Pedro II\plain\f16\fs20 \line \par 5. FTPE, given a brief description, name these branches of linguistics\par \pard \tx360 1. (10 points) This branch studies the sounds of languages from articulatory, acoustic and auditory views.\par \pard \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Phonetics\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \pard \tx360 \plain\f16\fs20 2. (10 points) This branch deals with the empirical study of word meanings and sentence meanings in existing languages \par \pard\keepn \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Semantics\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \pard \tx360 \plain\f16\fs20 3. (10 points) This branch involves the study of the structure and form of words in a language, including inflection, derivation, and the formation of compounds.\par \pard \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Morphology\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 6. Name these following about a novelist, FTSNOP.\par 1. (10 points) Set in Mexico, it tells of a weak-willed priest trying to evade revolutionaries who are killing the clergy.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Power and the Glory\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (5 points) Name the author of The Power and the Glory.\par \tab Answer: Graham \plain\b\f16\fs20 Greene\par \plain\f16\fs20 3. (15 points) Set in a leper colony in the Belgian Congo, this Graham Greene novel tells of the tragic end of an architect sick of adulation.\par \tab Answer: A \plain\b\f16\fs20 Burnt-Out Case\plain\f16\fs20 \line \par 7. Name these insect orders from members, FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) Beetles and weevils\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Coleoptera\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Butterflies and moths\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Lepidoptera\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Ants, bees, and wasps\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hymenoptera\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 8. FTSNOP, answer the following about Pakistan.\par 1. (5 points) This is Pakistan\'92s capital.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Islamabad\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This is the largest city in Pakistan.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Karachi\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (5 points/10 points) Pakistan consists of four provinces, two of which are Baluchistan and the North-West Frontier Province. Name the other two. You will get 5 points for 1 and 15 for both.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Punjab, Sind\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 9. Name these Nazis, FTPE. \par 1. (10 points) Born in Alexandria in 1894, he transcribed Mein Kampf in Landsberg Prison. Increasingly marginaliazed\line by the rise of Martin Bormann, he flew to England in 1941 to try to make peace. \par \tab Answer: Rudolf \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hess\plain\f16\fs20 \line 2. (10 points) In 1943 this man succeeded Erich Raeder to become head of the German Navy, and he went on to succeeded Hitler as leader of Germany for a week in 1945. \par \tab Answer: Karl \plain\b\f16\fs20 Donitz\plain\f16\fs20 \line 3. (10 points) His book the Spandau Diaries describe his time in prison after the Nuremburg Trials. Trained by the architect Heinrich Tessenow, he designed the Reich Chancellory before being named Armaments Minister following Fritz Todt's death in 1942.\par \tab Answer: Albert \plain\b\f16\fs20 Speer\plain\f16\fs20 \line \line 10. Name the medieval pope from events in his tenure for ten points each\line 1. (10 points) One of history\'92s most powerful popes, this pope promoted the Fourth Crusade. \line \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Innocent III\plain\f16\fs20 \line 2. (10 points) A conflict with Philip the Fair of France over church authority led to his brief capture by mercenaries and subsequent death. The papacy moved to Avignon the year after his death.\line \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Boniface VIII\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) The Council of Constance elected this Italian pope in 1417, ending the Great Schism. He died just after calling the Council of Basle.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Martin V\plain\f16\fs20 \line \par 11. Answer these questions about American generals in the South during the American Revolution FTPE.\line 1. (10 points) After winning the Battle of Saratoga, he was placed in command in the South, but after his disastrous loss at\line Camden, he was dismissed.\par \tab Answer: Horatio \plain\b\f16\fs20 Gates\plain\f16\fs20 \line 2. (10 points) Succeeding Gates after Camden, he fought a cat-and- mouse battle with Cornwallis, and though he lost the only\line battle he fought, Guilford Court House, he forced Cornwallis to abandon plans to occupy the Carolinas.\par \tab Answer: Nathaniel \plain\b\f16\fs20 Greene\plain\f16\fs20 \line 3. (10 points) This man led the failed assault on Savannah in 1779. A broken leg kept him from being captured at Charleston,\line after which he took to the swamps to continue harassing the British.\par \tab Answer: Francis \plain\b\f16\fs20 Marion\plain\f16\fs20 \line \line 12. FTPE, answer the following about a series of novels.\par 1. (10 points) Also known as Cathedral Stories, this series of six novels begins with The Warden, and tells of Bishop and Mrs. Proudie and the cathedral town of the title, which is beset with clerical intrigue.\par \tab Answer: Chronicles of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Barsetshire\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Who was thsi author of the Chronicles of Barsetshire, also known for his Palliser novels.\par \tab Answer: Anthony \plain\b\f16\fs20 Trollope\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) The best-known novel in the series is this second entry which concerns the insidious chaplain Mr. Slope.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Barchester Towers\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. FTSNOP, answer the following about an art movement.\par 1. (10 points) Established in 1909 by the artist and poet Filippo Marinetti, this radical movement sought to exalt such contemporary aspects of life as speed, machinery, and war, as seen in works like Dynamism of a Dog on a Leash.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 futurism\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (5 points) A major influence on futurism was this pointillist painter of A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.\par \tab Answer: Georges \plain\b\f16\fs20 Seurat\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (15 points) Perhaps the most famous of all futurist artworks is this Umberto Boccioni bronze statue which portrays a stocky figure astride two rectangular bases.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Unique Forms of Continuity in Space\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. Name these pioneers in the world of quantum mechanics FTP each:\par 1. (10 points) This French prince 1929 Nobel Price for his development of the wave nature of electrons.\par \tab Answer: Louis \plain\b\f16\fs20 de Broglie\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 2. (10 points) This British theoretician won a share of the 1933 Nobel for his work on quantum mechanics, most importantly his prediction of antimatter.\par \tab Answer: Paul \plain\b\f16\fs20 Dirac\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This Austrian shared the 1933 Prize with Dirac, and is famous for his wave equation.\par \tab Answer: Erwin \plain\b\f16\fs20 Schrodinger\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 15. Starting with Fulk the Red, this dynasty centered in a region of France gained control of the English throne in 1152, and the name was applied through the reign of King John, when the name Plantagenet replaced it. FTPE:\par 1. (10 points) What is this name of this dynasty?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Angevin\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) The Anegvin dynasty is usually held to have begun during the reign of this English queen, who was earlier queen of France while married to Louis VII.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Eleanor of Aquitane\plain\f16\fs20  \par 3. (10 points) This son of Eleanor and Louis VII wrested control of Anjou from King John in 1203.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Philip II\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Philip Augustus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. FTSNOP, name these Egyptian gods.\par 1. (5 points/5 points) First, name both of Horus\'92 parents.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Isis, Osiris\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (5 points/5 points) Isis was in turn the daughter of these two gods.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Geb, Nut\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This Ibis headed god was the patron of wisdom and inventor of the arts, sciences, and hieroglyphics. He is often protrayed holding the heart and tongue of Ra.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Thoth\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 17. Name these organic acids from their formulae and alternate names, FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) CH3 COOH, ethanoic acid\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 acetic \plain\f16\fs20 acid\par 2. (10 points) HO C6 H4 COOH, 1-hydroxybenzoic acid\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 salicylic\plain\f16\fs20  acid\par 3. (10 points) CH3 CH(OH) COOH, 2-hydroxypropanoic acid\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 lactic\plain\f16\fs20  acid\par \par 18. Name the Czech writers from descriptions FTPE.\line 1. (10 points) His novels The War with the Newts and The Macropulous Secret are science fiction classics, while his 1923 novel RUR introduced the word robot. \par \tab Answer: Karel \plain\b\f16\fs20 Capek\plain\f16\fs20 \line 2.(10 points)  Since 1975, he has lived in exile in France, and his 1990 book Immortality was written in French. His Czech\line works include The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness of Being.\par \tab Answer: Milan \plain\b\f16\fs20 Kundera\plain\f16\fs20 \line 3. (10 points) He became a spokesman for the human rights group Charter 77, which led to a jail term and inspired a collection of prison letters to his wife, Letters to Olga. The current President of the Czech Republic, he also wrote the plays The Garden Party and The Memorandum. \par \tab Answer: Vaclav \plain\b\f16\fs20 Havel\plain\f16\fs20 \line \line 19. FTPE, given what it measures, name the derived SI unit.\par 1. (10 points) electric conductance\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 siemens\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) electric capacitance\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 farad\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) magnetic induction, or magnetic flux density\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 tesla\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 20. Answer these questions about The Year of the Four Emperors for the stated number of points.\line 1. (10 points) First, for ten points, during what year did the year of the four emperors occur?\line \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 69\plain\f16\fs20  AD\line 2. (5 points) The high turnover in Roman Emperors was sparked by the suicide of this Julian emperor in 68 AD.\line \tab Answer: Claudius Caesar Drusus Germanicus \plain\b\f16\fs20 Nero\plain\f16\fs20 \line 3. (5 points/5 points/5 points) Now for five points each, name any three of the four emperors that reigned in 69AD.\line \tab Answer: Servius \plain\b\f16\fs20 Galba\plain\f16\fs20 , Marcus \plain\b\f16\fs20 Galba\plain\f16\fs20 , Lucius, \plain\b\f16\fs20 Vitellius\plain\f16\fs20 , Titus Flavius \plain\b\f16\fs20 Vespasian\plain\f16\fs20 (us)\line \par 21. Name the author from works 30-20-10.\par 1. (30 points) Shirley, The Professor\par (20 points) Villette\par (10 points) Jane Eyre\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 C\plain\f16\fs20 harlotte \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bronte\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16 \par \par }
