{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY KENTUCKY A (SETH KENDALL)\par TOSSUPS\par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 1. The maximum energy involved in this effect is given by the equation h times f minus phi, and it will only occur if h is greater than the work function divided by the threshold frequency. Although it usually occurs with ultraviolet light, it can sometimes occur with sunlight. Discovered in 1887 by Hertz, FTP, what is this effect in which a surface exposed to electromagnetic radiation emits a stream of photons, most associated with the work of Albert Einstein?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 photoelectric \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 effect\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 2. In the extended title of his most famous work this economist claims to respond to the speculations of William Godwin and the Marquis de Condorcet. From 1805-34 professor at the East India Company's college at Haileybury, he wrote 1820's Principles of Political Economy and An Inquiry into the Nature and Progress of Rent, but is best-known for a 1798 work in which he uses the argument that one element of society increases at an arithmetic rate, while another increases at a geometric rate, implying the need for moral restriant, crime, disease, war, and vice. FTP, who was this author of An Essay on the Principle of Population?\par \tab Answer: Thomas \plain\b\f16\fs20 Malthus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \sl240 3. In this work the author tells of his unhappiness at Manchester Grammar School and his subsequent escape. After befriending a 16 year-old prostitute named Ann he goed to Oxford, where his two great joys are to hera the soprano Grassini and to take medicine to treat his acute stomach pains. Moving to a cottage in northern England, he initially experiences complete happiness and writes a book on economics, but he soon descends into an extended period of inactivity marked by fantastic visions induced by his laudanum addiction. FTP, what is this most-famous work by Thomas de Qunicey?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Confessions of an English Opium Eater\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 4. Born with a damaged left arm which he hid with a cloak, this leader was sympathetic to the working class, as seen in his support of the Comprehensive Factory Act of 1908 and the Imperial Insurance Code of 1911. A grandson of Queen Victoria, he became unpopular with Great Britian due to his telegram of congratulations to Kruger for surviving the Jameson raid, while his alliance with Franz Joseph II of Austria eventually cost him the throne, after which he lived as a country gentleman in the Netherlands until his 1941 death. FTP, who was this man who served from 1888-1918 as Kaiser of Germany?\par \tab Answer: Kaiser \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Wilhelm II\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 5. This artist often appended to his paintings quotes from his putative epic poem "The Fallacies of Hope", which he never published and may never have written. Prone to outrageous claims, such as when he vowed he had been lashed to the stern of the ship Ariel in a blizzard in order to create "Steamboat off a Harbour's Mouth", he often gave his paintings grandiose titles, such as "Slaves Throwing Overboard the Dead and the Dying-Typhoon Coming On". Although is work was criticised by Constable as "airy visions, painted with tinted steam", Ruskin championed such works as "Petworth", Fighting Temeriere", and "Burning of the Houses of Parliament. FTP, who was this English painter perhaps best known for "Rain, Steam and Speed", "The Slave Ship", and "Snowstorm:Hannibal Crossing the Alps"?\par \tab Answer: Joseph Mallord William \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Turner\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 6. This type of algae can occur in running water and in vegetative form, but most are of the conjugative variety and are found in mats over still waters. All of them possess a slippery unbranched filament composed of cylindrical cells containing torodial green chloroplasts and take an uncomplicated structure ideal for microscopic study in secondary schools. With a name meaning "coiled-ring", FTP, what is this type of algae also known as mermaid's tresses, water silk, and pond scum?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 spirogyra\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (prompt on pond scum, water silk, or mermaid's tresses)\par \par 7. This river's tributaries include the Skawa, Sola, San, and Narew rivers, and it forms in the Beskid range from the confluence of the Czarna and Biala Wiselka streams. Connected to the Bug canal via the Dneipr-Bug canal and the Oder by the Bydgoszcz ("bid-gosh") canal, during its 651 miles it passes such cities as Torun, Danzig, and Krakow. FTP, what is this river which flows through Warsaw, the longest in Poland?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Vistula\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 8. One city of this name was described by Homer as "the Hundred Gated", and stood on the site of modern Al-Uqsur. In Strabo's time it was reduced to a small village, but earlier had served as the Egyptian capital during the 11th dynasty. The one in Boeotia was famous for the seven gates supposedly built using the music of Amphion, and in 336 it was sacked by Alexander the Great, who famously ordered that only the House of Pindar be left standing. FTP, what is the name of these cities, the latter of which was the subject of a mythical attack by seven Greek leaders?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Thebes\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 9. The protagonist of this novel was raised by her uncle, from whom she inherited a fortune, but she was actually the daughter of the once-powerful businessman Moodie. A beautiful magazine writer and feminist, the reader is told by Miles Coverdale of her disasterous marriage to the mesmerist Westervelt, and after her-half sister Priscilla wins the heart of the reformer Hollingsworth she kills herself. Centering on Zenobia, FTP, what is this novel set in a utopian community, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Blithedale Romance\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 10. This chemist's explanation of electrolysis laid the foundation of the modern electrochhemical series, and while working as a laboratory assistant discovered the respiratory effects of laughing gas. Among his practical inventions was a safety lamp usable in the presence of methane, and he is also famous for employing Michael Faraday as his assistant. FTP, who was this English chemist who used electrolysis to discover sodium, potassium, calcium, boron, magnesium, strontium, and barium?\par \tab Answer: Humphry \plain\b\f16\fs20 Davy\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 11. The end of this historical event was put in motion with the publication of Ludvik Vaculik's editorial "Two Thousand Words", and saw  coltrol of the governemtn pass to Gustav Husak. In an attempt to avoid purges to remove hardline apparatchiks from the government, several measures had been passed on April 5 to ease restrictions on civil liberties and to bring about "socialism with a human face", but by August 27th a Soviet garrison was mandated, leading to the removal of Alexander Dubcek as First Secretary. FTP, what was this brief 1968 period of increaed freedom named for the capital of Czechoslovakia and the season during which it occurred?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Prague Spring\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 12. Lesser known works of this thinker include "Repition", "Dread", and "Crisis and the Crisis in the Life of an Actress", written under such pseudonyms as Inter et Inter and Virgilius Haufnienses. His opposition to Hegel can be seen in the works written as Johannes Climaticus, including "On All Things to be Doubted", "Philosophical Fragments", and "Concluding Unscientific Postscript", while is analysis of the "teleological suspension of the ethical" is found in Fear and Trembling. FTP, name this Danish forerunner of existentialism, the author of "Either/Or".\par \tab Answer: Soren \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Kierkegaard\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par \pard \sl240 \plain\f16\fs20 13. A key part of this apparatus is an insulating stopper through which is passed a chain or conducting rod, which is then attached to the inner wall of the container. Usually charged using an electrostatic generator, it is coated on the inside and outside with metal foil, allowing it to store the electric charge. Now used almost exclusively in classrooms and named for the university at which it was invented, FTP, what is this jar, the earliest known capacitor?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Leyden\plain\f16\fs20  jar (prompt on capacitor)\par \par 14. Anecdotes about the deeds of this religious leader are found in the Janam-sakhis, and relate his travels to such places as Rome and China. Born into the mercantile Khatri caste in the village of Rai Bhoi di Talvandi, he worked in a granary until his religion inspired a lengthy period of travels. Until his death, when he was replaced by his hand-picked successor Angad, he preached salvation by meditation on the name of God from his home in the village of Kartarpur, and his hymns dedicated to this purpose are collected in the Adi-Granth. FTP, who was this first guru of Sikhism?\par \tab Answer: Guru \plain\b\f16\fs20 Nanak\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 15. Set during the reign of the Tsar Berendey, the opera features the wealthy youth Misgir, whose love of the title character cannot console her after she is repeatedly rejected by the shepherd Lehl, who in turn loves Misgir\'92s betrothed Kupava. Longing both to love and be loved, the title character prays to her mother, the Fairy Spring, to be able to return the affection of Misgir, a request that is granted, but when she is about to marry him her heart is melted by a ray from the sun god Yarilo and dies, leading to Misgir\'92s suicide. Such are the events in, FTP, what opera about the daughter of Spring and Winter whose words and music were composed by Nicolai Rimsky-Korsakov?\par \tab answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 The \plain\b\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Snow Maiden\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (\plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Snegurochka\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 )\par \par 16. At one point this author of "Arc de Triomphe" supported himself as a race-car driver and sportswriter. Although he received acclaim for his late novel "A Time to Love and a Time to Die", he is best-known for a novel continued in "The Road Back" and which tells of Paul Baumer's experiences in WWI. FTP, who was this German author of "All Quiet on the Western Front"?\par \tab Answer: Erich Maria \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Remarque\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par \pard \sl240 \plain\f16\fs20 17. One of this organization's founders was a fugitive from justice who evaded arrest due to the aid of Jerry Brown and Mario Cuomo from 1975-84. Founded by Minneapolis in 1968 by George Mitchell, Clyde Bellecourt, and Dennis Banks, they gained attention for their 1969-71 occupation of Alcatraz prison, marking them as the most militant group of their kind. Organizers of the Trail of Broken Treaties Caravan and Wounded Knee Reservation Seizure, FTP, what is this militant Indian organization.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 AIM\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 American Indian Movement\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 18. The basics behind this computer language were developed by its inventor at a 1956 Dartmouth Summer Research Project, and its primary dialect, version 1.5, came out in 1965. Its significant features include the use of "atoms", reliance on recursion, garbage collection, and computation performed by applying functions to arguments rather than variables. Invented by John McCarthy, FTP, what is this language famous for its use in artificial intelligence whose name is short for "List Processing"?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 LISP\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (prompt on List Processing)\par \par \pard \sl240 \plain\f16\fs20 19. This god held court at Svarga, his heaven in the clouds, and his attendant were called the Maruts. His most notable exploit was returning water to the earth by defeating the evil dragon Vritra, which he achieved by drinking large amounts of soma to take on giant form. The son of Dyaus Pita and Prthivi, from whom he was born fully grown and armed, he rode the great white elephant Airavata, and his most famous son was Arjuna. FTP, who was this supreme ruler of the gods in Vedic times, the husband of Indrani?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Indra\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 20. One major character in this novel is a Mississipian practicing law in New York while writing tracts against "modern times". In opposition to this character is his cousin, an feminist activist. They both vye for the attentions of a pretty, intectually vacant girl who finally decides to leave the women's movement and settle down with Basil Ransom, thus disappointing her protector, Olive Chancellor. Centering on the character Verena Tenent, FTP, what is this Henry James novel whose title refers to the Massachusetts home town of Verena and Olive?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Bostonians\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 21. In the majority opinion for this case the Supreme Court first ruled that the plaintiff, referred to several times as an \'93eelemosynary\'94 institution, was a private corporation which could not be subjected to meddling by the legislature. This was a de facto victory for the plaintiff which was then bolstered by acknowledging that the Royal Charter in essence consisted of a contract between the government and the plaintiff which, according to Article I secion 10, could not be impaired by the actions of a state, in this case New Hampshire.  This is a summary of Chief Justice John Marshall\'92s ruling in, FTP, what 1819 case argued by Daniel Webster on behalf of a college which claimed the right to appoint its own governing body independent of the action of the state to modify it?\par \tab answer: The Trustees of \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Dartmouth College v. Woodward\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 22. The action of the play takes place in the basement of what appears to be a restauraunt in Birmingham, where the two main characters have been sent by the mysterious and uncommunicative Wislon. Confused by several cryptic messages sent to them, they are aware that they have been sent to kill someone though they don\'92t know who, and this ambiguity remains  unresolved in the end even when it appears that one of the men is going to kill the other one. Such is a brief sketch of the adventures of Gus and Ben in, FTP, what absurdist play by Harold Pinter whose title refers to the device by which they are sent unfillable requests?\par \tab answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 The \plain\b\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Dumbwaiter\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 23. In Europe fossil strata from this epoch are divided into the Ypresian, Lutetian, Bartonian, and Priabonian stages, while in North America they are referred to as the Wasatchian, Bridgerian, Uintan, and Duchesnean stages. In it, marine mammals such as the the cetaceans and the sirenians first appeared, as did the artiodactyls, which were precursors to the deer, cattle, and sheep, and perissodactlys, ancestors of rhinoceroses, tapirs, and horses. FTP name this second division of the Tertiary Period that began about 57.8 million years ago and ended about 36.6 million years ago, which followed the Paleocene Epoch and precedes the Oligocene Epoch, and which, as its name suggests, was the \'93dawn\'94 of recent life.\par \tab answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Eocene\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 \page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY KENTUCKY A \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 BONUSES\par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 1. The Gospel of Luke lists some of the most interesting parables told by Jesus. Name some of these from descriptions, 10 points each.\par 1. Jesus tells of this beggar who goes to heaven while the rich man goes to hell, where his request to have his thirst quenched by a drop of water from the finger of the beggar he had once scorned is not granted by Abraham.\par \tab answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Lazarus\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. Chided by the Pharisees for eating with sinners in Chapter 14, Jesus tells the story of this spendthrift whose kind treatment by his father angers his brother.\par \tab answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Prodigal Son\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (accept \'93Lost Son\'94)\par 3. In response to a lawyer who asks \'93who is my neighbor?\'94 in Chapter 10, Jesus tells the story of this man, a foreigner who helps rescue a man who was  jacked and beaten on the road to Jericho, putting to shame the other religious figures who left him victim to his fate.\par \tab answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Good Samaritan\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 2. Answer the following questions from late nineteenth century US history FTPE.\par 1. 10 points: From 1892 to 1896 this man served as vice-president, and would run for the Vice Presidential seat again in 1900 in one of William Jennings Bryan\'92s abortive campaigns. His grandson and namesake would himself unsuccessfully vie for the Presidency in 1952 and 1956.\par \tab answer: Adlai E. \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Stevenson\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (5 points) Adlai Stevenson served as this man's vice president. Formerly mayor of Buffalo and Governor of New York, he was the only democrat to win the presidenty between 1860 and 1908.\par \tab Answer: Grover \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Cleveland\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) A major event of Cleveland's second stint in office was the mediation of the boundary dispute between this country and Britain's Guiana colony which arose due to the discovery of gold along the disputed boundary.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Venezuela\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 3. A recent dystopian novel described the Republic of Gilead, in which women are often forced to serve as broodmares for powerful men with infertile wives. FTSNOP:\par 1. (10 points) What was this name of this novel?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Handmaid's Tale\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (5 points) Name the Canadian author of "The Handmaid's Tale", also known for "Cat's Eye" and "The Robber Bride".\par \tab Answer: Margaret \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Atwood\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (15 points) This is the protagonist of "The Handmaid's Tale". Originally known as June, she is addressed by this name which indicates which man she serves.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Offred\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 4. Answer the following questions about the cerebrum, 10 points each. \par 1. The cerebrum is grooved by a number of shallow furrows which separate the raised ridges called "gyri". Identify the medical term for these grooves, taken from the Latin for "plowed".\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 sulcus\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (accept "sulci")\par 2. Opposed to sulci are these deep grooves of the brain. The Sylvian one separates the frontal and temporal lobes.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 fissures\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. Another fissure, the longitudinal, separates the cerebral hemispheres almost completely, leaving only this thick band of "calloused" fibers to connect them.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 corpus callosum\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 5. The works of some classical composers are sometimes given unique alpha-numeric labels. 5-10-15, name these composers.\par 1. (5 points) This Austrian's works are labelled by the so-called Koechel numbers. An example is K 551, which denotes the Jupiter Symphony.\par \tab Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Mozart\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) Compositions by this man are labelled "D" for "Deutsch", as seen in D417, which denotes the "Tragic" Symphony.\par \tab Answer: Franz \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Schubert\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) This composer's works are labelled "RV", which stands for "Ryom" and the composer's name. RV 351 is the Summer Concerto, and RV297 is the Winter Concerto.\par \tab Answer: Antonio \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Vivaldi\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 6. FTPE, name these Roman Emperors.\par 1. (10 points) This man served as joint emperor with Lucius Verus until 169, and served alone until 180. He is known for his study of Stoicism and his book "Meditations".\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Marcus Aurelius\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  Antoninus\par 2. (10 points) This successor to Septimius Severus was noted for his instability and cruelty, seen in his murder of his brither Geta. He ruled from 211-217, and was named for the cloak he wore.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Caracalla\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (accept with astonishment \'93Septimius Bassianus Marcus Aurelius Severus Antoninus Augustus\'94)\par 3. (10 points) The supposed son of Caracalla was this man, a priest of Baal at Emaesa who sexual excesses and bizarre behavior eventually led to his assassination. Name this man, who ruled the Empire from 218 to 222.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Heliogabalus\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (accept \'93Elagabalus\'94 or \'93Varius Avitus Bassianus Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus\'94)\par \par 7. Name the following about an island, FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) 402 square miles in area, this largest of the Society Islands is home to the city of Papeete.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Tahiti\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) Tahiti is the most famous island in this French overseas territory which comprised the Society, Marquesas, Austral, Tuamotu, and Gambier Islands. Its capital is the aforementioned Papeete.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 French Polynesia\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) Tahitu consists of two major land masses, Big Tahiti and Little Tahiti, which are linked by this isthmus.\par \tab Answer: Isthmus of \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Taravao\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 8. FTPE, name these American authors from works.\par 1. (10 points) Butterfield 8, Appointment in Samarra\par \tab Answer: John \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 O'Hara\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) Jazz; Paradise; Song of Solomon\par \tab Answer: Toni \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Morrison\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) The Broom of the System; Infinite Jest\par \tab Answer: David Foster \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Wallace\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 9. FTPE, provide the requested information from physics.\par 1. (10 points) Named for the Greek for "hot iron", this is the emission of electrons from heated materials.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 thermionic\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  emissions\par 2. (10 points) The theory behind thermionic emissions was worked out by this recipient of the 1928 Nobel Prize in Physics, who developed with his colleague Saul Dushman a namesake series of equations governing thermionic emissions.\par \tab Answer: Owen \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Richardson\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) Thermionic emissions provide the basis for the electron gun found in these tubes which provide the viewing screen for televisions.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 cathode-ray\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  tubes\par \par 10. FTPE, name the following about naughty paintings.\par 1. (10 points) In 1863 this painting was refused by the Paris Salon for its scandalous depiction of a naked woman seated and staring at the viewer in the company of two clothed men near a stream.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Luncheon on the Grass\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (\plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Dejeneur sur l\'92herbe\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 )\par 2. (10 points) Who painted \'93Luncheon on the Grass\'94?\par \tab Answer: Edouard \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Manet\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) According to legend this painting and its better-draped counterpart were commissioned from Goya by an aristocrat who had them positioned such that he could display the more decent version in public and the less decent one in private by means of a rope mechanism. In it, one can see tufts of pubic hair on the reclining naked model.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Nude Maya\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (\plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Maya Desnuda\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 ; accept equivalents)\par 3. (10 points) This artist aroused controversy with "The Origins of the World", which depicts the naker bottom half of a woman in explicit detail, and with "The Sleepers", which shows two nude woman in what appears to be a lsebian embrace. He is also known for The Stonebreakers and The Burial at Ornans.\par \tab Answer: Gustave \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Courbet\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 11. On June 22, 1807, an American vessel was overtaken by a British frigate, which demanded to board and seize deserters and which fired upon the American ship when the order was refused, taking four men and inflicting 22 casualties in the process. Answer the following questions about that American ship, FTPE.\par 1. Name this ill-fated boat manhandled by the H.M.S. Leopard.\par \tab Answer: U.S.S. \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Chesapeake\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. James Barron, the commander of the Chesapeake, would be stripped of his command and the ship would be given to this man, who later became famous for destroying the U.S.S. Philadelphia during the Barbary wars. Name this man, whom Barron would later shoot and kill in a duel in 1820.\par \tab Answer: Stephen \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Decatur\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. The Chesapeake would later be commanded by this man, who would be killed in combat against the British HMS Shannon, but not before uttering his famous line \'93Don\'92t Give up the Ship!\'94.\par \tab Answer: James \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Lawrence\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 12. FTPE, answer the following about a type of audible sound.\par 1. (10 points) These are consonant sounds produced by bringing the mouth into position to block the passage of the airstream without making complete closure, as heard in the sounds of "f" and "v". What are these sounds named for the Latin for "rubbing"?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 fricative\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) Fricatives are often classified by the way the tongue behaves while making them. For example, a fricative such as a \'93T\'94, for which the surface of the tongue is relatively unrolled and the air exits through a wide aperture, is known as this type of fricative, to distiguish it from the grooved or rill variety.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 slit\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  fricative (accept \'93flat\'94)\par 3. Another type of fricative is exemplified by the s, z, sh, and zh sounds, in which the tip of the tongue is brought near the roof of the mouth, with air is pushed past the tongue to make a hissing sound. Give the name for this sound, from the Latin for \'93hiss\'94.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 sibilant\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 13. The physician Thomas Sydenham is not well known today, though in his own time his emphasis on detailed observations of patients and accurate records earned him the nickname "the English Hippocrates."  Answer the following questions about him 5-10-15.\par 1. (5 points) Sydenham earned fame for his treatise on this disease, a disorder in which joints of the extremities are inflamed by deposits of uric acid; it is now known to be caused by a hereditary metabolic disorder and not by luxurious eating.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 gout\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) The Dick test is used to determine resistance to this disease. Sydenham distinguished between measles and this disease caused by the Streptococcus pyogenes notable for its red spots, tender glands, and tendency to develop into rheumatic fever.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Scarlet Fever\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par  3. (15 points) Sydenham discribed this disease also known as his type of chorea. A childhood illness characterised by involuntary jerking movements in the extremities and face, it derives its more common name from the Saint to whose chapels sufferers of the disease would go for cures in the Middle Ages.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 St. Vitus's Dance\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (accept also \'93chorea minor\'94 or \'93infectious chorea\'94)\par \par 14. Answer the following about an author and his work, FTSNOP.\par 1. (15 points) This play, the author's last, tells of the troubles relationship between Irene von Satow and the sculptor Arnold Rubek, who are last seen climbing a mountain before becoming lost in a storm.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 When We Dead Awaken\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (5 points) This Norwegian playwright wrote "When We Dead Awaken", but is better-known for "The Master Builder" and "A Doll's House"\par \tab Answer: Henrik \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Ibsen\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) This 1867 Henrik Ibsen verse drama described the adventures of an irresponsible figure of Norwegian legend, and was adapted into two suites by Edvard Grieg.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Peer Gynt\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 15. In 1929 the film \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Queen Kelly\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  was completed, but because of the many troubled circumstances surrounding it it would not be released until 1950, after footage of it was used in another film. FTPE,\par 1. (10 points) The footage of Queen Kelly was used in this film starring Gloria Swanson, in which Norma Desmond is ready for her close-up.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Sunset Boulevard\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) This costar in Sunset Boulevard was removed as the original director of Queen Kelly, leading him to use his ownership of the film to delay its release. He was the husband of Gloria Swanson at the time, and is also known for directing "Greed".\par \tab Answer: Erich von \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Stroheim\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) Stroheim was replaced as director of Queen Kelly by this man, who is much better known as a producer and namesake of the Academy Award for lifetime achievements in production.\par \qj \tab Answer: Irving J. \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Thalberg\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \ql \par 16. Upon his final conquest of England the Dane Canute took the widow of Aethelred the Unready, Emma, as his queen, and after his death their offspring, plus a son each had had from outside the marriage, would all successively rule England. FTPE:\par 1. (10 points) Name Canute\'92s illegitimate son by a mistress who ruled England from 1035 to 1040 while the legitimate sucessor to Canute was tied up with affairs in Denmark.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Harold I \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \'93Harefoot\'94\par 2. (10 points) Name the legitimate son of Canute and Emma who took power after Harold I\'92s death, conducting a two year reign known for its severity and  high taxation which ended on his death in 1040.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Hardicanute\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (accept reasonable equivalents in pronunciation)\par 3. (10 points) This saintly son of Aethelred and Emma who took the throne in 1042 and spent most of his reign, which lasted until 1066, under the practical domination of the Earl Godwin and his son, who would become Harold II.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Eadward the Confessor\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (accept reasonable differences in pronunciation)\plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 17. FTPE, name these Italian authors.\par 1. (10 points) This author of Il Filocolo and Il Filostrato is best-known for a collection of stories told by ten people fleeing from the black plague.\par \tab Answer: Giovanni \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Boccaccio\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. (10 points) This author of the poetry collections "Waters and Land", "Sunken Oboe", and "Scent of Eucalyptus" won the 1959 Nobel Prize for Literature. His last name is the same as a Victor Hugo character.\par \tab Answer: Salvator \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Quasimodo\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. (10 points) Born in Cuba, this author's experiences in the Italian resistance during WWII inspired "The Path to the Nest of Spiders", but he is probably best-known for "If On a Winter's Night a Traveller".\par \tab Answer: Italo \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Calvino\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 18. Identify the common female names from Greek myth FTPE.\par 1. One was the first wife of king Athamas whose children, Helle and Phrixus, were menaced by his next wife, Ino., while another was the name of the cloud in the shape of Hera with whom Ixion fathered the centaurs.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Nephele\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. One woman with this name was the wife of King Creon who hanged herself after her son Haemon was killed. Another was the wife Orpheus attempted to rescue from the underworld.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Eurydice\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. Roman legend holds that this was the name of the Sibyll who tried to sell her books to king Tarquin. A Greek figure with this name was the mother goat who nursed Zeus during his childhood and whose horns became the cornucopia.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Amalthea\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 19. Name the following kings of France from a description, FTPE.\par 1. The son of Louis II the Stammerer, this man ruled France from 893 to 922 but was labelled \'93the Simple\'94 for his cession of Normandy to the Vikings under Rollo, for which he would eventually lose his crown.\par \tab answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Charles III\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. The last of the Capetian line, this man, like Philip IV, was labelled \'93the Fair\'94 and he ruled France and Navarre from 1322 to 1328, an inglorious reign notable for failed ventures to win the throne of Germany and Flanders and the invasion of Aquitaine by his cousin Isabella, wife of England\'92s Edward II.\par \tab answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Charles IV\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. Known as \'93the Wise\'94, this man served as regent during the imprisonment of his father John II after the Battle of Poitiers, finally succeeding him in 1364. Reigning until 1380, he did much to repair French fortunes after the disastrous beginnings of the Hundred Years\'92 War.\par \tab answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Charles V\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 20. In 1886 a German physicist named Eugen Goldstein discovered certain kinds of rays which were positively charged and accelerated toward and through a perforated cathode in an evacuated tube. For 10 points each:\par 1. Give the name Goldstein attached to these rays, a name associated with Eire, Panama, and Suez.\par \tab answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 canal\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  rays (accept \'93Kanalstrahlen\'94)\par 2. These so-called canal rays were composed of a particle with a positive charge equal to the electron but opposite in sign with a mass of 1.0073 atomic mass units. Give the name by which these particles have been known since 1920, when it was identified by Ernest Rutherford.\par \tab answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 proton\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. Canal rays were extensively studied by this man, better knwon for his research on blackbody radiation which earned him the Nobel Prize in 1911.\par \tab answer: Wilhelm \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Wien\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par 21. Described by Norm McDonald on Celebrity \'93Who Wants to be a Millionaire?\'94 as a \'93dirty, dirty play\'94, this stage production known for its treatment of sex and use of widespread nudity was primarily the work of Kenneth Tynan, though it also featured contributions by Jules Pfeffer, John Lennon, and music by Peter Schikele. For the stated number of points:\par 1. 10 points: Name this work, whose title is suggestive of India but actually derives from a Clovis Trouille painting which later served as its poster.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Oh! Calcutta\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. 5 points: Other contributors to Oh! Calcutta included this author of \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Waiting for Godot.\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \tab Answer: Samuel \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Beckett\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3. 15 points: Another contributor to Oh! Calcutta was this actor-playwright famous for works like \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Fool for Love \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 and the Pulitzer-Prize winning \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Buried Child\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  and for acting performances in \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Homo Faber\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 , \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Steel Magnolias\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 the Right Stuff\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 .\par \tab Answer: Sam \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Shepard\par \plain\f16 \par \par }
