{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult0\lang1033\b\f0\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #1 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
TOSSUPS\b0\par
\par
1. Just to the left of center on the bottom of this painting is a spotted dog standing at the edge of the water, while on the far right is a man in the overgrowth on the opposite shore. A man is seen reaching into the water at the house which dominates the far left, while in the center two men are trying to navigate the shallow water with a cart drawn by several black animals with red bridles. FTP, what is this famous painting by John Constable?\par
\tab Answer; The \b Hay Wain\b0\par
\par
2. This military leader resigned his commission when he was blamed by a court of inquiry for not following up on the explosion of a mine before the Battle of Petersburg. In February 1862 he captured Roanoke Island, but soon after taking command of the Army of the Potomic led the unsuccessful Fredericksburg campaign and was relieved of command. Also known for his 1866-69 stint as governor of Rhode Island, FTP, who was this Union army officer who lent his name to a style of facial hair?\par
\tab Answer: Ambrose \b Burnside\b0\par
\par
3. Throughout this novel the author comments on the changing nature of Russian farm life through observations concerning the estate Maryino, while comic relief is provided by the vainglorious intellectuals Madame Kukshin and Sitnikov, who stand in contrast to Madame Odintsov. Its main plot concerns a young man who has a flirtation with Fenitchka and who believes that progress can only be achieved by rejecting the principles of the past, which the reader observes through his conversations with his protege Arkady and his arguments with Paval Kirsanov. FTP, what is this novel about the nihilist Bazarov, the best-known work of Ivan Turgenev?\par
\tab Answer: \b Fathers and Sons\b0\par
\par
\pard 4. This element's only oxidation state is -1, and it is impossible to free from its compounds by chemical means. It is prepared commercially be the same method which Henri Moisson used to isolate it in 1886, and is also found in the mineral cryolite. Its only isotope is the stabe 19 version, and in its gaseous form takes on a pale yellow color. The most electronegative and reactive of the elements, FTP, what is this lightest of the halogens with atomic number 9 and symbol F?\par
\tab Answer: \b Fluorine\b0\par
\par
5. Although the actual author of this book is unknown, its first verse attributes it to "qohelet", or "preacher", who is identifiied as "the son of David, king in Jerusalem". Questioning the doctrine of retributive justice, chapter 9, verse 1 holds that man's fate does not depend on righteous or wicked conduct, but is rather an inscrutable mystery that remains hidden in God, and goes on to observe that "the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,...but time and chance happen to them all." FTP, what is this book of the Old Testament containing the famous observation that "All is vanity"?\par
\tab Answer: \b Ecclesiastes\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 6. The stage was set for this war by Britain's alliance with Prussia in the Treaty of Westminster and Austria's alliance with France in the so-called "diplomatic revolution". Early success went to Prussia with their victories at Rossbach, Leuthen, and Zorndorf, which were soon followed by British victories at Minden and Quiberon Bay. However, Spain's entry into the war coupled with the death of Russia's Elizabeth Petrovna and the resignation of Pitt the Elder led all parties to conclude hostilities with the Treaty of Paris. FTP, what was this European war lasting from 1756-63?\par
\tab Answer: \b Seven Years \b0 War\par
\par
\pard 7. This mythological figure avenged his brother's death by killing Lynceus after having abducted and married Lynceus's cousin Hilaeira. While one of the Argonauts he killed the belligerent king Amycus with his boxing skills, but he is best-known for exploits performed with his brother, including the abduction of Theseus's mother Aethra and the rescue from Aphidnae of the\f1 ir\f0  sister Helen. Granted immortality by Zeus, FTP, who is this man who then shared that immortality with his slain brother Castor?\par
\tab Answer: \b Pollux\b0  or \b Polydeuces\b0\par
\par
8. This author's first novel, Jocelyn, was published under the pseudonym John Sinjohn, while the first book to appear under his own name was The Island Pharisees. A successful dramatist who examined controversial social issues in plays like Loyalties, Justice, Strife, and The Silver Box, he secured lasting success by examining the members of one family in works like The End of the Novel and A Modern Comedy and in the novels The Man of Property, In Chancery, and To Let, which comprise his most famous trilogy. FTP, who was this author of The Forsyte Saga?\par
\tab Answer: John \b Galsworthy\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 9. This body part is divided into three parallel canals by the basilar membrane and Reissner's membrane. Those three canals, the scala vestibule, scala media, and scala tympani, contain endolymph and perilymph fluid which transmits vibrations from the oval window to the organ of Corti, whose sensory hairs produce impulses in the brain. FTP, what is this coiled, shell-like part of the inner ear responsible for transforming sound waves into nerve impulses?\par
\tab Answer: \b cochlea\b0\par
\par
10. The one called Crow Dog denied US courts jurisdiction over crimes committed by and against members of reservations. Vallandigham concerned military tribunals, while Quirin held that the sixth amendment did not apply to military tribunals. Garland was one of the test-oath cases, and Yarbrough upheld passage of the Force Act of 1870. FTP, these are all examples of what type of court case, the most famous of which are probably Milligan and Merryman, whose two word name means "from one party only"?\par
\tab Answer: \b ex parte\b0\par
\par
\pard 11. This author left unfinished the poetic drama Politian, and shortly before his death finished the essay Eureka. Rising to fame with early works like Al Aaraaf, Berenice, and Hans Pfaal, many of his greatest short stories were published in his first collection, Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque, but he considered himself mainly a poet, turning out such works as Ulalume, Sonnet-To Science, and The Conquerer Worm. FTP, who was this master of the short story responsible for tales like A Descent Into the Maelstrom, The Masque of the Red Death, and The Gold Bug?\par
\tab Answer: Edgar Allan \b Poe\b0\par
\par
12. The measures taken by this leader to restore popular confidence in the government is recorded in the so-called "Restoration Stela" from Karnak. Also known as Nebkheperure, he came to the throne circa 1352 BCE, succeeding his brother Smenkhkare, and he soon married the priestess Ankhesenamun and restored the worship of Amun after the Amarna interlude before dying without an heir circa 1343 BCE, making him the last of the 18th Dynasty. FTP, who was this chold pharoah famous for the virtually intact tomb discovered in 1922 by Lord Carnarvon and Howard Carter?\par
\tab Answer: \b Tut\b0 ankhaman (or Tutankhaten; accept early answer of Nebkheperure)\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 13. The Great Karroo can be found in the south of this country which contains four regions, Venda, Ciskei, Bophuthatswana, and Transkei, which were declared independent from 1976-94. On its \f1 west\f0  coast are False Bay and St. Helena Bay, while on its east coast are the ports of Durban and Port Elizabeth. In the southeast is the Drakensberg Mountain Range, while rivers which have their source here include the Vaal and Limpopo. FTP, what is this country whose three capitals are Bloemfontein, Cape Town, and Pretoria?\par
\tab Answer: Republic of \b South Africa\b0\par
\par
14. This moon is covered with large impact craters, with the largest, Stickney, measuring 11.5 kilometers in diameter, and it also features several families of parallel grooves or chains of craters. It is irregularly shaped, measuring 27 by 22 by 19 kilometers in size, and maintains a distance of only 6,000 kilometers from the surface, making it the innermost of its planet's moons. Like its famous partner, it always keeps one face turned towards the planet's surface, and was discovered by Asaph Hall in 1877. FTP, what is this larger moon of Mars, the partner of Deimos?\par
\tab Answer: \b Phobos\b0\par
\par
\pard\sb100\sa100 15. Among this philosopher's important early work are the essays "The Uses and Disadvantages of History For Life" and "Schopenhauer as Educator", which he grouped with two other essays under the collective title "Untimely Meditations". He gained notoriety for the section entitled "The Madman" in "The Gay Science", but in 1889 the sight of a horse being flogged led to his mental collapse, ending the writing of his so-called "Nachlass" materials, including "The Case of Wagner", "Twilight of the Idols", and "Ecce Homo". FTP, who was this German philosopher probably best-known for "Thus Spake Zarathustra"? \par
\tab Answer: Friedrich \b Nietzsche\b0\par
\pard 16. The title figure of this poem is initially described as "Marble-heavy, a bag full of God", but is soon referred to as a "Ghastly statue". Opening with the speaker's statement that "you do not do anymore", she \f1 compares \f0 the title figure as a Nazi, describing him as "a man in black with a Meinkampf look", and after claiming that he bit her "pretty red heart in two", she finally frees herself from his memory, concluding the poem by telling him "you bastard, I'm through". FTP, what is this confessional poem by Syliva Plath?\par
        Answer: \b Daddy\par
\b0\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 17. This man was trained as an advocate, but resigned his post as a judge in 1782 and for a time lived the life of a dandy in Arras. Known as the "Incorruptible", in 1791 he became public accuser, and the next year he emerged as the leader of the Mountain faction of the National Convention, but in 1794 was ousted and killed in the Thermidorian Reaction. FTP, who was this member of the Committee of Public Safety who dominated France during the Reign of Terror?\par
\tab Answer: Maximilien Francois Marie Isidore de \b Robespierre\b0\par
\par
18. Throughout this musical work, the same theme is taken up by different combinations of instruments, constantly increasing the sonority of the piece until the full force of the orchestra makes a final, thunderous statement of the theme just before its conclusion. Its single theme is in two sections, the first heard in the flute and clarinet, the second in the bassoon and clarinet. During a slow, 17-minute long crescendo, a side drum punctuates the Spanish dance rhythm for which it is named. FTP, what is this most-famous piece by Maurice Ravel?\par
\tab Answer: \b Bolero\b0\par
\par
19. The properties that make this polymer useful probably derive from its helical structure with the fluorine atoms on the surface of an inner ring of carbon atoms. Possessing a high softening point of 327 degrees Celsius, its preparation requires ammonium peroxosulphate as an initiator, and it is formed by the polymerization of tetrafluoroethene. FTP, what is this plastic used in electrical insulation, gaskets, and non-stick cookware?\par
\tab Answer: \b Teflon\b0  (prompt on polytetrafluoroethene or PTFE)\par
\par
\pard 20. After the protagonist of this play suffers a series of misadventures, including a dunking in the Thames, he winds up dressed in a costume adorned with stag's horns being teased and frightened by fairies and witches, who turn out to be his friends in disguise. A subplot of this play concerns Anne Page, who is simultaneously courted by Fenton, Dr. Caius, and Slender, but the main plot concerns the realization by Mrs. Ford and Mrs. Page that they are both being wooed by John Falstaff. Said to have been requested by Queen Elizabeth, FTP, what is this comedy by Shakespeare?\par
\tab Answer: The \b Merry Wives of Windsor\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 21. Chloracne is the major biological result from this chemical mixture consisting of equal parts of 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T, the latter of which contains varying amounts of the by-product tetrachlrodibenzodioxin, which is often refered to as TCDD or simply as dioxin. Named for the stripe marking drums containing it, it was used in Operation Ranch Hand, which sought to destroy crops and defoliate forest areas that might serve as cover for enemy troops. FTP, what is this mixture of herbicides which from 1962-71 was sprayed in Vietnam?\par
\tab Answer: \b Agent Orange\b0\par
\par
\b\page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #1 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
BONUSES\b0\par
\par
1. FTPE, given a metal , give the color it produces in a flame test.\par
1. (10 points) barium\par
\tab Answer: \b green\b0\par
2. (10 points) sodium\par
\tab Answer: \b yellow\b0\par
3. (10 points) strontium\par
\tab Answer: \b red\b0\par
\par
\pard 2. Samuel Taylor Coleridge poems, FTPE.\par
1. (10 points) In this ode, Coleridge describes his addiction to opium and his love for Sara Hutchinson, who is referred to b\f1 y\f0  the anagram Asra. It gives voice to his fears that his poetic powers are waning and that he no longer responds intensely to nature.\par
\tab Answer: \b Dejection\b0 : An Ode\par
2. (10 points) Subtitled A Vision in a Dream, this 54-line poetic fragment supposedly came to Coleridge in an opium-induced dream, and describes events in Xanadu.\par
\tab Answer: \b Kubla Khan\b0\par
3. (10 points) Inspired by Coleridge's son Hartley, this four-stanza poem meditates on the relationship between the quiet work of winter and the breathing of a sleeping baby, and he concludes with the resolve to raise his son as a "child of nature". It pioneered a new, informal mode of poetry unified by conversational tone and rhythm.\par
\tab Answer: \b Frost at Midnight\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 3. FTPE, name the following about a river.\par
1. (10 points) This fourth longest river in Africa rises in northwest Zambia, and flows across the Zambia-Zimbabwe border, then through Mozambique before emptying into the Mozambique Channel.\par
\tab Answer: \b Zambezi\b0\par
2. (10 points) This waterfall is formed on the Zambia-Zimbabwe border when the mile-wide Zambezi river falls 400 feet into a narrow fissure.\par
\tab Answer: \b Victoria\b0  Falls\par
3. (10 points) Formed by one of the largest dams in the world, this lake on the Zambia-Zimbabwe border is 175 miles long and 20 miles wide. It shares its name with the dam.\par
\tab Answer: Lake \b Kariba\b0\par
\par
4. FTPE, answer the following about a US military unit.\par
1. (10 points) Composed mainly of westerners whose horsemanship gave them their name, they suffered the highest casualty rate in the Spanish-American War.\par
\tab Answer: \b Rough Riders\b0  (or 1st US Volunteer Cavalry Regiment)\par
2. (10 points) The rough riders wer\f1 e\f0  commanded by this Colonel who would go on to serve as military governor of Cuba\f1 ,\f0  during which time he eradicated yellow fever in the area\f1 .\f0  Army Chief of Staff starting in 1910, conflicts with Wilson led him to be passed over for command of the Allied Expeditionary Force in favor of Pershing.\par
\tab Answer: Leonard \b Wood\b0\par
3. (10 points) The rough riders gained fame when Teddy Roosevelt led their taking of Kettle Hill in this key July 1, 1898 battle in which Jacob Kent's 10,000 troops drove Arsenio Lenares Pomba's 1,200 Spaniards from the ridges above Santiago.\par
\tab Answer: \b San Juan Hill\b0\par
\par
5. FTPE, stuff about an artist.\par
1. (10 points) This 19th century artist is known for works like Self-Portrait at Ste. Hagie, The Sleepers, and The Stonebreakers.\par
\tab Answer: Gustave \b Courbet\b0\par
2. (10 points) A man on a cross can be seen in the back left of this Courbet painting, in which a crowd of people and a white dog surround a hole in the ground, where the title event is occurring.\par
\tab Answer: The (or A) \b Burial at Ornans\b0\par
3. (10 points) A man is reading on the far right of this Courbet painting featuring a large number of people in the title place. In the center a child and a nude woman look at the central figure, who is at work on a landscape.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Artist's (or Painter's) Studio\b0 ; A Real Allegory\par
\par
6. FTPE, heart stuff.\par
1. (10 points) Also known as the left atrioventricular valve, these flaps between the left atrium and left ventricle prevent any backward flow of blood into the left atrium when blood is forced into the aorta.\par
\tab Answer: \b bicuspid\b0  valve or \b mitral\b0  valve\par
2. (10 points) These are the two large veins that carry deoxygenated blood into the right atrium.\par
\tab Answer: \b vena cava\b0\par
3. (10 points) This collection of specialized heart muscle fibres receive electrical stimulation from the atrioventricular node and transmit them throughout the network of Purkyne fibres.\par
\tab Answer: \b bundle of His\b0\par
\par
7. FTPE, don't fake the funk and name the following stuff about languages.\par
1. (10 points) The Chinoor language is an example of this type of hybrid language used between speakers of different tongues. The first one developed among medieval traders in the Mediterranean.\par
\tab Answer: \b Lingua franca\b0\par
2. (10 points) This is a language of simplified grammar and vocabulary most often based on a western European language. The English type is a prime example of a lingua franca.\par
\tab Answer: \b pidgin\b0\par
3. (10 points) This Bantu language is the lingua franca of much of eastern Africa.\par
\tab Answer: \b Swahili\b0\par
\par
\pard 8. FTPE, name these short stories by Nathaniel Hawthorne.\par
1. (10 points) Giovanni Guasconti falls in love with Beatrice, who has been raised on the poisonous flowers in her father's garden.\par
\tab Answer: \b Rappaccini's Daughter\b0\par
2. (10 points) The scientist Aylmer accidently kills his wife Georgiana while trying to remove a red spot shape\f1 d\f0  like a hand from her cheek.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Birthmark\b0\par
3. (10 points) Owen Warland is a watchmaker obsessed with the creation of things of beauty, but partly due to the marriage of Annie Hovendon to Robert Danforth he learns that beauty cannot last and that few can appreciate it as he does.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Artist of the Beautiful\b0\par
\par
9. FTPE, answer the following about a Norse beast.\par
1. (10 points) This creature is the oldest child of Loki and Angrboda. Chained a mile beneath the earth with a sword between his jaws to prevent him from biting, he will break free at Ragnarok and kill Odin.\par
\tab Answer: \b Fenrir\b0  or the \b Fenris Wolf\b0\par
2. (10 points) To imprison Fenrir the dwarves made this soft, thin ribbon fashioned from the footstep of a cat, roots of a mountain, a woman's beard, the breath of fishes, the sinews of a bear, and a bird's spittle.\par
\tab Answer: \b Gleipnir\b0\par
3. (10 points) Odin's death will be avenged by this son, the god of silence and revenge, who will rip Fenrir apart with his bare hands.\par
\tab Answer: \b Vidar\b0\par
\par
10. FTPE, Hitler stuff.\par
1. (10 points) After forcing Austrian Chancellor Kurt von Schuschnigg to resign, Hitler engineered this annexation of Austria in 1938. Its name means "connection".\par
\tab Answer: \b anschluss\b0\par
2. (10 points) After complaints by German settlers against the Czech government were whipped up by Konrad Henlein, Hitler annexed this frontier in northwest Czechoslovakia after the Munich Pact.\par
\tab Answer: \b Sudetenland\b0\par
3. (10 points) In this 1944 plot to assassinate Hitler, Count Berthold von Stauffenberg left a bomb at Hitler's headquarters at Rastenburg. After the attempt failed, Hitler conducted a violent purge resulting in the deaths of Stauffenberg, Fromm, and Rommel.\par
\tab Answer: \b July \b0 Plot\par
\par
11. Earn some points with old-school trash knowledge and name these foils for Bugs Bunny.\par
1. (10 points) Bugs loses 10 dollars in a race with this turtle, who wins by enlisting the aid of several lookalikes.\par
\tab Answer: \b Cecil\b0  the Turtle\par
2. (10 points) Bugs thwarts this alien's plan to blow up the earth when Bugs puts out his Illudium Pew-36 Explosive Space Modulator.\par
\tab Answer: \b Marvin\b0  the Martian\par
3. (10 points) Now, show you are really hardcore and name the big, orange, hairy, sneaker-wearing monster encountered by Bugs.\par
\tab Answer: \b Gossamer\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 12. FTPE, name the following about properties of physical systems.\par
1. (10 points) This is the set of invariances of a system. Usually studied using group theory, an example is t invariance, or time reversal invariance.\par
\tab Answer: \b symmetry\b0\par
2. (10 points) Symbolized C, this is the property of elementary particles that determines the difference between a particle and its antiparticle.\par
\tab Answer: \b charge conjugation\b0\par
3. (10 points) This is the property of a wave function that determines its behaviour when all its spatial coordinates are reversed in direction. When applied with charge conjugation it is usually an invariant, an exception being the behaviour of K mesons.\par
\tab Answer: \b parity\b0\par
\par
\pard 13. FTPE, answer the following about a religious doctrine.\par
1. (10 points) This doctrine emphasizes the all-inclusive omnipotence of God, holding that man and nature are not independent of God, but are rather modes or elements of his Being.\par
\tab Answer: \b Pantheism\b0\par
2. (10 points) Usually cited as the classic expression of pantheism is this philosopher's doctrine of Deus sive natura, or God or Nature). He is best known for Ethica Ordine Geometrico Demonstrata, or the Ethics.\par
\tab Answer: Benedictus (or Baruch) \b Spinoza\b0\par
3. (10 points) Pantheism stands in opposition to this religious doctrine, the belief in a single omnipotent and omniscient God who created everything else that exists, usually regarded as a Being distinct from his creation though manifesting himself through it.\par
\tab Answer: \b theism\b0\par
\par
14. FTPE, Kipling works.\par
\f1 1. (10 points) Pampered 15 year-old Harvey Cheyne is rescued by the fishing schooner We\rquote re Here, where captain Disko Troop puts him to work, making him a man.\f0\par
\tab Answer: \b Captains Courageous\b0\par
2. (10 points) This largely autobiographical collection of boys' stories tells of the adventures of the schoolboys Arthur Cockran, Irish McTurk, and Beetle.\par
\tab Answer: \b Stalky and Co.\b0\par
3. (10 points) This novel tells of an Irish orphan named O'Hara who is raised as an Indian in Lahore and gains fame in the English Secret Service while searching for the mystic River of the Arrows with an old lama.\par
\tab Answer: \b Kim\b0\par
\par
15. FTPE, name these Italian musical terms.\par
1. (10 points) Literally meaning "from the head", this term indicates that a previously played section of music should be repeated.\par
\tab Answer: \b da capo\b0\par
2. (10 points) Meaning "robbed", this term indicates that the performer should gradually accelerate or decelerate the tempo for effect.\par
\tab Answer: \b rubato\b0\par
3. (10 points) This is an accelerated form of a minuet which is often featured as the third movement of a symphony, as seen in works of Haydn and Beethoven. It literally means "joke".\par
\tab Answer: \b scherzo\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 16. 5-10-15, name these poeple and events in the Spanish-American Wars of Independence.\par
1. (5 points) Known as the liberator, this man is considered the founding father of most northern countries in South America. He proclaimed the vast Republic of Colombia in 1819, but died on his way to exile in 1830.\par
\tab Answer: Simon \b Bolivar\b0\par
2. (10 points) After serving the Spanish until 1813, this man fought for Spanish-American independence, winning the battles of Chacubuco and Maipu. He became Protector of Peru in 1821, but resigned after conflict with Bolivar.\par
\tab Answer: Jose de \b San Martin\b0\par
3. (15 points) In this December 9, 1824 battle, the last major battle of the Wars of Independence, Bolivar and Sucre defeated the forces of Field Marshall Jose de la Serna, ensuring independence in the area.\par
\tab Answer: \b Ayacucho\b0\par
\par
\pard 17. FTPE, name these South African authors.\par
1. (10 points) This author of A Sport of Nature, My Son's Story, and Burger's Daughter was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1991.\par
\tab Answer: Nadine \b Gordimer\b0\par
2. (10 points) This author of Journey Continued: An Autobiography is probably best known for Cry, the Beloved Country.\par
\tab Answer: Alan \b Paton\b0\par
3. (10 points) With Song of the City and Mine Boy, this man became the first black South African to bring attention to the plight of blacks in South Africa. He is also known for A Wreath for Udomo and The Fury of Rachel Monette.\par
\tab Answer: Peter \b Abrahams\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 18. FTPE, name these trails from US history.\par
1. (10 points) Inspired by a profitable business trip made by William Becknell in 1821, this trail connected New Mexico and Missouri, and followed the Arkansas River for much of its course. It was the primary trade route with newly-independent Mexico.\par
\tab Answer: \b Sante Fe\b0  Trail\par
2. (10 points) Connecting San Antonio with Abilene, Kansas, from 1867-71 this trail was the most important route for driving cattle.\par
\tab Answer: \b Chisholm\b0  Trail\par
3. (10 points) One of the most heavily used cattle trails in the southwest, this trail connected Fort Belknap, Texas, and Fort Sumner, New Mexico, and then went on to Denver. It is named for the two men who blazed it in 1866.\par
\tab Answer: \b Goodnight\b0  Loving Trail (note only Goodnight is necessary)\par
\par
19. FTPE, name these early anatomists.\par
1. (10 points) This Belgian served as court physician to Charles V and later Philip II. His post-mortem dissections revolutionized anatomy, and his findings, many of which contradicted Galen, are found in 1543's On the Structure of the Human Body.\par
\tab Answer: Andreas \b Vesalius\b0\par
2. (10 points) A student of Vesalius, this Italian named the vagina and was the first to describe the clitoris, but is best known for discovering the tubes leading from the ovary to the uterus.\par
\tab Answer: Gabriele \b Falloppio\b0  (or Gabriel Fallopius)\par
3. (10 points) A student of Falloppio, this Italian's book On the Formation of the Fetus was the first work of its kind. Also important is 1612's On the Development of the Egg and the Chick, but his most lasti\f1 ng\f0  achievement is his description of the valves of the veins, found in his appropriately titled book On the Valves of the Veins.\par
\tab Answer: Girolamo \b Fabrizio\b0  (or Geronimo Fabricius)\par
\par
\pard 20. 5-10-15, name these Chinese philosophers.\par
1. (5 points) This ancient philosopher's teachings come to us mainly through the Lun-yu, or Analects, a collection of brief dialogues and sayings recorded by his disciples, who were mostly young men whom he was preparing for govertment office.\par
\tab Answer: \b Confucius\b0  or \b K'ung \b0 fu-tzu or Venerable Master \b K'ung\b0\par
2. (10 points) This philosopher, often considered the second greatest Confucian thinker, devoted his life to persuading the leaders of the warring states to base their government on Confucian morality.\par
\tab Answer: \b Mencius\b0  or \b M'eng\b0 -tzu\par
3. (15 points) Along with Ch'eng Yi the leader of Neo-Confucianism, this 12th century thinker is often regarded as the greatest Confucian philosopher of this millenium. He h\f1 el\f0 d that moral action required the investigation of the principles inherent in the world around us, as exemplified in the Confucian classics.\par
\tab Answer: \b Chu Hsi\b0\fs24\par
\par
}
 