{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult0\lang1033\b\f0\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #2 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
TOSSUPS\par
\par
\pard\b0 1. Among the exploits of the mythological figure were the capture of the Marathonian bull and the slaying of the Crommyonian sow. In his old age his unpopulatity forced him to take refuge in Scyros, where he was murdered by Lycomedes. Earlier, he had left home after becoming strong enough to lift the stone under which his father Aegeus' sword was hidden, and went on to marry Phaedra, who bore him the son Hippolytus. FTP, who was this chief hero of Attica who, with the aid of Ariadne, slew the Minotaur?\par
\tab Answer: \b Theseus\b0\par
\par
2. This ruler died during his siege of Szigeth in his war with Austria. Establisher of the Corsair States in north Africa, he developed a series of new regulations concerning land tenure which earned him the nickname Qanuni, or Lawgiver, among his people. In three camapigns against Safavid Persia he confirmed Ottoman control of eastern Asia Minor, maintained a naval supremacy in the eastern Mediterranean marred only by his costly failure to take Malta, and advanced all the way to the middle Danube with his victory at Mohacs in 1526. FTP, who was this Ottoman sultan, known as the "Magnificent"?\par
\tab Answer: \b Suleiman I \b0 or \b Suleiman the Magnificent\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 3. One of the key ideas of this novel is the comparison made by Mozart between life and a radio playing Handel's Concerto Grosso in F Major, while another major moment is the protagonist's dream of a conversation with Goethe while sleeping at the The Black Eagle. The title figure is forced to reevaluate his life after meeting the bandleader Pablo and Hermine, and after visiting the Magic Theater he begins to realize the errors of his earlier way of life, in which the conflict between his intellectual ideals and his animal impulses led to his estarangment from society. FTP, such describes what novel about Harry Haller by Hermann Hesse?\par
\tab Answer: Der \b Steppenwolf\b0\par
\par
\pard 4. This lake contains only limited numbers of fish, all of which were artificially introduced. Attaining a depth of 1,932 feet, it is famous for its intense blue color. Home to Wizard \f1 Island\f0 , it is located in the Cascade Range of southwestern Oregon, and was made a national park in 1902. Found in the remnant of Mount Mazama, FTP, what is this lake located in a huge volcanic caldera?\par
\tab Answer: \b Crater \b0 Lake\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 5. The energy loss which results from this effect is governed by the formula h times the quantity v sub 1 minus v sub 2. When low-energy photons and high-energy electrons are involved the inverse effect occurs. This effect results in an increase of the wavelength of the radiation involved, and it was first discovered in 1923, resulting in a share of the 1927 Physics Nobel Prize for its discoveror. FTP, what is this effect in which the energy of high-energy photons is reduced when they are scattered bu free electrons?\par
\tab Answer: \b Compton\b0  effect\par
\par
\pard\f1 6. Among this artist\rquote s important works painted in the United States are a painting for the San Francisco Stock Exchange, as well as "Detroit Industry". He gained an intenational reputation with The Nightmare of War and the Dream of Peace and Man at the Crossroads, and created a scandal by including the phrase \ldblquote God Does Not Exist\rdblquote  in Dream of a Sunday Afternoon in the Central Alameda. Known for his monstrously ugly appearance, FTP, who was this most popular of the Mexican muralists?\f0\par
\tab Answer: Diego \b Rivera\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 7. This man served as minister of foreign affairs in the French government in 1849, and his book on the French Revolution entitled The Old Regime and the Revolution was unfinished at his death in 1859. He is famous today for work resulting from 9 months he spent travelling with Gustave de Beaumont, resulting in two major works, one of which was The Penal System in the United States and its Application in France. FTP, who was this French writer and politician best-known for his magnum opus Democracy in America?\par
\tab Answer: Alexis de \b Tocqueville\b0\par
\par
\pard 8. Forced to live on a limited income after his family lost its fortune in mysterious circumstances, this literary character shares a remote Gothic mansion in the Faubourg-St.-Germain with his unnamed companion, a fellow bookworm who he met at an obscure library in Montmartre. He shows that a former suitor murdered Marie Roget, but is better known for solving two other crimes, one involving Minister D--'s blackmailing of a woman of royalty, the other concerning the murder of Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter in a locked room. FTP, who is this Edgar Allan Poe creation described in The Purloined Letter and The Murders in the Rue Morgue?\par
\tab Answer: C. Auguste \b Dupin\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 9. This man's grandfather Christopher was a Revolutionary War leader and head of the South Carolina radicals. After serving in the U.S. army he was made U.S. commissioner to remove the Seminole Indians to reservations in 1823. From 1840-50 he was president of the South Carolina Railroad Company, during which time he projected a southern route for a transcontinental railroad, which is closely related to his most famous achievement, which occurred while he was U.S. minister to Mexico. FTP, who was this man who negotiated the purchase of nearly 30,000 square miles of land in Arizona and New Mexico?\par
\tab Answer: James \b Gadsden\b0\par
\par
\pard 10. This body part regulates fluid intake and feelings of thirst, contains a center that determines wakefulness and sleep, regulates body heat in response to variations in external temperature, and influences caloric intake and weight regulation by establishing a stable "set point" for individual weight gain. It is connected by both nervous and chemical pathways to the pituitary, and triggers the pituitary's release of growth hormone, oxytocin, and vasopressin. FTP, what is this region of the brain making up the floor of the third cerebral ventricle, named for its location below the thalamus?\par
\tab Answer: \b hypothalamus\b0\par
\par
11. This thinker studied first under Roscellinus and then under William of Champeaux. Author of Historia calamitatum, he was an extremely popular lecturer at Notre Dame who developed conceptualism, which served as a compromise to the schools of realism and nominalism, but his rationalism angered the clergy, and he died on his way to Rome to appeal a condemnation caused by the prosecution of Bernard of Clairvaux. FTP, who was this 12th century scholastic philosopher best-known for his love affair with Heloise?\par
\tab Answer: Pierre \b Abelard\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 12. Some of this poet's notable works include Robert of Lincoln, The Fountain, and The Flood of Years. A direct descendant of John and Priscilla Alden, he influenced politics as editor of the New York Evening Post, but is most importan\f1 t\f0  today for works written in his youth, including a satirical poem attacking Jefferson entitled The Embargo and the short poem To a Waterfowl. FTP, who was this first great American poet most famous for Thanatopsis?\par
\tab Answer: William Cullen \b Bryant\b0\par
\par
13. This scientist discovered parthenogenesis in aphids, as well as protozoa, which he called animalicules. Apprenticed to a cloth maker in his native Delft, where he was friends with Jan Vermeer, in 1660 he obtained the sinecure of chamberlain to the sheriffs of Delft, after which he undertook work which led him to see bacteria, sperm, and red blood cells, achievements not repeated for more than a century. FTP, who was this Dutch pioneer in microscopic research?\par
\tab Answer: Anton van \b Leeuwenhoek\b0\par
\par
\pard 14. On the opening day of this battle Stonewall Jackson's forces kept Union troops from taking Centreville, and on the final day of fighting Jackson defeated retreating Union forces at Chantilly. The main fighting occurred on August 29-30, 1862, when Lee's forces defeated those of John Pope. FTP, what is this Civil War battle, the second of two with the same name?\par
\tab Answer: \b 2nd Bull Run\b0  or \b 2nd Manassas\b0\par
\par
15. This hominid was at one point erroneously placed in the Sinanthropus group. Characterized by a flat skull with a small forehead, cranial capacity averaging 1,075 cubic centimeters, and a large, powerful, chinless jaw, these hominids had a well-developed communal culture, practiced hunting, and used fire domestically. First identified as a new fossil human by Davidson Black in 1927 on the basis of a single tooth, later excavations yielded fossils from about 40 individuals, but these finds mysteriousl\f1 y disappeared during an attempt to smuggle them into the United States in 1941. FTP, what is this member of homo erectus discovered in Chou-k\rquote ou-tien cave and named for the Chinese city nearby?\f0\par
\tab Answer: \b Peking man\b0  (prompt on homo erectus)\par
\par
16. These compounds dehydrate to give alkenes or ethers, and react with acids to give esters. The primary type have two hydrogen atoms on the carbon joined to the central group, secondary ones have one hydrogen atom on the carbon, and tertiary ones have no hydrogen on the carbon. Methanol and ethanol are examples of, FTP, what organic compounds containing the OH group?\par
\tab Answer: \b alcohol\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 17. The earliest reference to this festival is from the pilgrim Etheria, who attended it in Jerusalem in the late 4th century. Called Hypapante in the Greek church, it was instituted in the Western chirch by Pope Sergius I, and commemorates the occasion when the Virgin Mary, in accordance with Jewish law, went to the Temple in Jerusalem to be purified 40 days after the birth of her son and to present Jesus to God as her firstborn. Celebrated on February 2, FTP, what is this festival whose current name derives from the custom of observing it with lighted candles?\par
\tab Answer: \b Candlemas\b0  (or Presentation of the Lord or Presentation of Christ in the Temple) (accept early Hypapante)\par
\par
18. The protagonist of this novel and Herbert Pocket are discovered by the police trying to help their friend escape London due to a tip provided by the criminal Compeyson, while at the same time the woman the protagonist loves marries Bentley Drummle. A key moment occurs when the lawyer Jaggers informs the protagonist that he has been given a large fortune, leading him to mistreat his brother-in-law Joe Gargary, but he soon learns that his benefactor is not Miss Havisham but rather Abel Magwitch. FTP, such is a partial description of what novel about Philip Pirrip, written by Charles Dickens?\par
\tab Answer: \b Great Expectations\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 19. While most of these musical pieces follow the same pattern, the first features a minuet as a fourth movement, while the third features only two movements separated by two slow chords, and is written for strings alone, while the fifth features the harpsichord. The most famous of these pieces is the second, which is written in the Italian concerto grosso style and features trumpet, flute, oboe, and violin. Named for a margrave, FTP, what are these six concertos by J.S. Bach?\par
\tab Answer: \b Brandenburg Concertos\b0\par
\par
\pard 20. It ended the oppressive dragonnades, but the end of its political benefits was achieved by the Peace of Alais and the capture of the stronghold at La Rochelle, while a series of declarations beginning in 1665 interpreted it so narrowly that it became virtually useless. Officially revoked in 1685, it had originally created what was essentially an independent state within France with its provisions for French subsidies for troops and fortifications for its constituents. FTP, what was this 1598 edict of Henry IV which ended the Wars of Religion by granting religious toleration to the Huguenots?\par
\tab Answer: Edict of \b Nantes\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 21. This mathematician was the first to use decimal points to separate the whole and fractional parts of numbers, and he also made advances in scientific farming, especially by his use of salt as a fertilizer. In 1617's Rabdologiae he described a mechanical method for claculating products and quotients using labelled rods usually made with ivory or bone, and which consequently became known as his "bones", but he is better known for developing a way to simplify scientific calculations. FTP, who was this English mathematician, the inventor of logarithms?\par
\tab Answer: John \b Napier\b0\par
\par
\b\par
\page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #2 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
\pard BONUSES\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 1. FTPE, name the following about titration terms.\par
1. (10 points) This two word term describes an acid which has lost one proton.\par
\tab Answer: \b conjugate base\b0\par
2. (10 points) This is a solution composed of an acid and its conjugate base that serves to moderate the pH of a solution.\par
\tab Answer: \b buffer\b0\par
3. (10 points) Buffers must be chosen for the appropriate pH range that they are called on to control. The pH range of a buffered solution is given by this equation, in which pH is equal to the acid dissociation constant pKa of the acid plus the log of the concentration of the scidic buffer species divided by the concentration of the basic buffer species.\par
\tab Answer: \b Henderson-Hasselbalch\b0  equation\par
\par
\pard 2. FTSNOP, answer the following about an American author and his work.\par
1. (15 points) Compiled from about 2,000 pages of manuscript by John Callihan, this novel tells of the relationship between the black Baptist minister Alonzo "Daddy" Hickman and the white racist New England senator Adam Sunraider.\par
\tab Answer: \b Juneteenth\b0\par
2. (10 points) Name the author of Juneteenth, who lost much of his original draft when his house burned in 1967, and spent the last years of his life rewriting it.\par
\tab Answer: Ralph \b Ellison\b0\par
3. (5 points) Ralph Ellison remains best-known for this 1952 debut novel in which the unnamed protagonist moves into a hole in the ground.\par
\tab Answer: \b Invisible Man\b0\par
\par
3. FTSNOP, related Supreme Court cases.\par
1. (10 points) In 1964, the Court ruled that police violated the 6th Amendment by interrogating a suspect without telling him of his right to legal advice.\par
\tab Answer: \b Escobedo v. Illinois\b0\par
2. (5 points) In 1966 the Court extended Escobedo v. Illinois by ruling that the Due Process clause obliges police to tell suspects that they may remain silent, that anything they say may be used in court, and that they can consult an attorney.\par
\tab Answer: \b Miranda v. Arizona\b0\par
3. (15 points) In 1981 the Court extended Miranda by holding that a suspect may demand that all interrogation stop until a lawyer is present\f1  in this case\f0 .\par
\tab Answer: \b Edwards v. Arizona\b0\par
\par
4. FTSNOP, answer the following about the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\par
1. (5 points) The atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima was delivered by this B-29.\par
\tab Answer: \b Enola Gay\b0\par
2. (15 points) The Enola Gay was commanded by this colonel.\par
\tab Answer: Paul \b Tibbets\b0\par
3. (10 points) Major Charles Sweeney commanded this B-29 which bombed Nagasaki three days later.\par
\tab Answer: \b Bock's Car\b0\par
\par
5. FTSNOP, answer the following about an 18th-century thinker.\par
1. (15 points) This 1759 philosophical work argues that the basis of morality is pleasure in mutual sympathy, which forces people to moderate their natural egocentricity and to see themselves through other's eyes.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Theory of Moral Sentiments\b0\par
2. (10 points) Name the author of The Theory of Moral Sentiments, who based it on lectures he gave as Glasgow.\par
\tab Answer: Adam \b Smith\b0\par
3. (5 points) Adam Smith's best-known work is this treatise on political economy, the first comprehensive treatment of the subject as a whole.\par
\tab Answer: An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the \b Wealth of Nations\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 6. FTPE, name the skull stuff.\par
1. (10 points) The occipital bone has this central opening which admits the spinal cord.\par
\tab Answer: \b foramen magnum\b0\par
2. (10 points) The cheek bones join with the temporal and maxillary bones to form this arch of bone below the eye sockets.\par
\tab Answer: \b zygomatic\b0  arch\par
3. (10 points) The skull is supported by this highest vertebra, which permits nodding motion.\par
\tab Answer: \b Atlas\b0  vertebra\par
\par
\pard 7. FTPE, characters from Hamlet.\par
1. (10 points) When the play begins, this guard relieves Francisco. Along with Marcellus, he was the first to see the Ghost of Hamlet's father.\par
\tab Answer: \b Bernardo\b0\par
2. (10 points) This young Prince of Norway attacks Denmark to avenge the honor of his father, who was killed by Hamlet's father.\par
\tab Answer: \b Fortinbras\b0\par
3. (10 points) This foolish courtier is seen by Hamlet just before his duel with Laertes. Using overly elaborate language that renders him incomprehensible, he tries to flatter Hamlet by agreeing with everything Hamlet says, leading him to constantly sontradict himself.\par
\tab Answer: \b Osric\b0\par
\par
8. FTPE, name these books of the Old Testament.\par
1. (10 points) This book describes the misery and suffering the followed the destruction of Jerusalem in five poems, the first four of which are alphabetical acrostics.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Lamentations\b0  of Jeremiah\par
2. (10 points) The last book of the Christian Old Testament, it relates the hardships of the times with the moral laxness of the people, and sepcifically attacks priests who failed to abide by the Holy Covenant. It ends by promising blessings on those who fear God and by predicting the coming of Elijah.\par
\tab Answer: \b Malachi\b0\par
3. (10 points) This short book begins by telling of God's wrath against his enemies, and then prophesies that bloody destruction of Ninevah in graphic detail.\par
\tab Answer: \b Nahum\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 9. FTSNOP, name the following about early Mexican history.\par
1. (10 points) In 1821 this Creole defeated the Spanish and had himself declared Emperor Augustin I, but was ousted 11 months later for his dictatorial policies.\par
\tab Answer: Agustin de \b Iturbide\b0\par
2. (15 points) Iturbide came to power mainly due to this plan which he announced in the town of the same name. It stated that Mexico would be organized as a Roman Catholic monarchy in which anyone could hold political office, but he abandoned it after becoming emperor.\par
\tab Answer: Plan of \b Iguala\b0\par
3. (5 points) With the aid of Guadalupe Victoria this general ousted Iturbide, and went on to lose Texas and the Mexican War. He was removed from power for the final time in 1855 by Ayutla's revolt.\par
\tab Answer: Antonio Lopez de \b Santa Anna\b0\par
\par
10. FTSNOP, answer the following about a collection of keyboard pieces.\par
1. (10 points) Consisting of 2 preludes and 2 fugues for each of the 12 major and minor keys, this collection of pieces was intended to champion a new method of tuning musical instruments.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Well Tempered\b0  \b Clavier\b0\par
2. (5 points) Name the Baroque composer of The Well-Tempered Clavier.\par
\tab Answer: \b J\b0 ohann \b S\b0 ebastian \b Bach\b0\par
3. (15 points) Bach was championing the scheme for dividing the octave into 12 equally spaced notes developed by this music theorist.\par
\tab Answer: Andreas \b Werckmeister\b0\par
\par
\pard 11. FTPE, name these characters from Of Mice and Men.\par
1. (10 points) This intelligent man takes care of Lennie Small after the death of his Aunt Clara and hopes to one day own a small ranch with him.\par
\tab Answer: \b George Milton\b0  (accept either name)\par
2. (10 points) This aging farmhand lost a hand in an accident, and his worries about his future lead him to offer to join George and Lennie in their scheme to own a ranch.\par
\tab Answer: \b Candy\b0\par
3. (10 points) The son of the boss of the ranch on which George and Lennie work, this small boxer picks on Lennie due to Lennie's large size and relative helplessness. His wife, who is never named, flirts with Lennie, leading to disaster.\par
\tab Answer: \b Curley\b0\par
\par
12. FTPE, name the following about a group of giants from Greek myth.\par
1. (10 points) According to Hesiod, three of these giants were named Brontes, Steropes, and Arges, and their job was to forge Zeus' thunderbolts.\par
\tab Answer: \b Cyclops\b0  or \b Cyclopes\b0\par
2. (10 points) The cyclopes were held to be the offspring of Uranus and this personification of the Earth. The daughter of Chaos, she was both the mother and wife of Uranus, and mated with Tartarus to give birth to Typhon.\par
\tab Answer: \b Ge\b0\par
3. (10 points) This most famous Cyclops imprisoned Odysseus and his crew in a cave on Sicily, and crushed Acis under a rock due to his love for Galatea.\par
\tab Answer: \b Polyphemus\b0\par
\par
13. FTPE, answer the following about a political faction.\par
1. (10 points) Led by Roscoe Conkling, this faction of the Republican Party represented state political machines, and were opposed by the Half-Breeds.\par
\tab Answer: \b stalwarts\b0\par
2. (10 points) Stalwart opposition nearly cost James Garfield the 1880 election, in which he narrowly defeated this Democratic candidate who had earlier been cited for gallantry at Gettysburg, where he was badly wounded.\par
\tab Answer: Winfield Scott \b Hancock\b0\par
3. (10 points) One legend for the source of the name stalwart holds that it came from a statement made by this man when he assassinated Garfield in July 1881.\par
\tab Answer: Charles \b Guiteau\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 14. FTPE, name these "h" terms from physics.\par
1. (10 points) This principle holds that any point on a wavefront can itself be considered as a source of secondary waves.\par
\tab Answer: \b Huygens'\b0  principle\par
2. (10 points) This is a phenomenon in which two physical quantities are related in a manner that depends on whether one is increasing or descrasing in relation to the other. The most famous example is the magnetic flux density within a ferromagnetic material related to the applied magnetic field strength.\par
\tab Answer: \b hysteresis\b0\par
3. (10 points) Symbolized H, this is a function used to express the energy of a system in terms of its momentum and positional coordinates. In simple cases it is the sum of the system's kinetic and potential energies.\par
\tab Answer: \b Hamiltonian\b0\par
\par
\pard 15. FTPE, name these movies with a common theme.\par
1. (10 points) In this 1999 offering, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Matthew Lillard oppose the evil Kilrathi empire. Fighting ensues.\par
\tab Answer: \b Wing Commander\b0\par
2. (10 points) Brothers Mark Dacascos and Scott Wolf possess half of a powerful ancient Chinese talisman which will give the possessor absolute power, while evil billionaire gang leader Robert Patrick possesses the other half. Fighting ensues.\par
\tab Answer: \b Double Dragon\b0\par
3. (10 points) Plumber brothers Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo try to rescue a princess from villainous Dennis Hopper. Fighting ensues.\par
\tab Answer: \b Super Mario Bros.\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 16. FTPE, name these Waverly novels by Walter Scott.\par
1. (10 points) Set just before the Jacobite 15 Rebellion, this novel tells how Francis Obaldistone wins Diana Vernon when the legendary title hero helds Obaldistone reveal the villainy of his cousin Rashleigh.\par
\tab Answer: \b Rob Roy\b0\par
2. (10 points) The 1736 Porteous Riots provide the background for this novel in which Effie Deans is held in Old Tolbooth prison on charges she killed her illegitimate son. Her sister Jeanie braves numerous perils to secure Effie's pardon.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Heart of Midlothian\b0\par
3. (10 points) Set in 15th century France, in this novel the title character saves the life of King Charles XI and wins the hand of Countess Isabelle de Croye.\par
\tab Answer: \b Quentin Durward\b0\par
\par
\pard 17. 30-20-10-5, name the artist.\par
1. (30 points) This artist first gained fame with 1859's At the Piano, while his artistic creed is described in his book "Ten O'Clock Lecture".\par
(20 points) He was also a revolutionary decorative artist, as seen in his design for the Peacock Room. The definitive collection of his ideas can be found in The Gentle Art of Making Enemies.\par
(10 points) He sued Ruskin for libel when Ruskin described his Nocturne In Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket as "flinging a pot of paint in the public's face". He was bankrupted when he was awarded only a single farthing.\par
(5 points) He is best-known for Arrangement in Grey and Black: Portrait of the Painter's Mother.\par
\tab Answer: John Abbott McNeill \b Whistler\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 18. FTPE, answer the following about a Holy Roman Emperor.\par
1. (10 points) Made king of Bohemia when his father John of Luxemburg died at Crecy, this man served as Holy Roman Emperor from 1355-78, greatly expanding the kingdom with his skills of negotiation and diplomacy.\par
\tab Answer: \b Charles IV\b0  \par
2. (10 points) Consisting of 31 chapters, Charles IV promulgated this constitution for the Holy Roman Empire in 1356 which was intended to eliminate papal interference in German political affairs and recognize the importance of the princes of the empire. It is named for its seal of authentication.\par
\tab Answer: the \b Golden Bull \b0  of Charles IV\par
3. (10 points) The Golden Bull placed the confirmation of the Holy Roman Emperor firmly in the hands of these seven princes. They included the archbishops of Trier, Mainz, and Cologne, the duke of Saxony, the count palatine of the Rhine, the margrave of Brandenburg, and the king of Bohemia.\par
\tab Answer: \b electors\b0  (or Kurfurst)\par
\par
\pard 19. FTPE, name these geographic regions.\par
1. (10 points) This plateau occupies eastern Canada from the Great Lakes and St Lawrence to the Arctic Ocean, and extends south into the US as the Adirondacks. It contains the largest expanse of precambrian rock in the world.\par
\tab Answer: \b Canadian Shield\b0  or \b Laurentian Plateau\b0\par
2. (10 points) One part of the Canadian Shield is this peninsula in northwest Quebec. The bay of the same name lies to the east, while on the north the Hudson Strait separates it from Baffin Island.\par
\tab Answer: \b Ungava\b0  Peninsula\par
3. (10 points) Another part of the Canadian Shield is this mainland part of Newfoundland. It shares its name with a cold current originating in the Davis Strait which brings icebergs south to the Gulf Stream.\par
\tab Answer: \b Labrador\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 20. Name the following constellations from secondary stars found in them FTPE, or F5P if you need a better-known star.\par
1. (10 points) Bellatrix, Saiph\par
(5 points) Rigel, Betelgeuse\par
\tab Answer: \b Orion\b0\par
2. (10 points) Mirzam, Wezen, Adhara\par
(5 points) Sirius\par
\tab Answer: \b Canis Major\b0\par
3. (10 points) Elnath\par
(5 points) Aldebaran\par
\tab Answer: \b Taurus\b0\par
\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0\par
\pard\fs24\par
\par
\par
}
 