{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult0\lang1033\b\f0\fs20 NOTE TO TOURNAMENT DIRECTORS: FOR PURPOSES OF AVOIDING A MINOR REPEAT OF INFORMATION, PLEASE READ THIS ROUND AFTER BERKELEY B\rquote S ROUND\f1\par
\par
ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #3 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
TOSSUPS\par
\par
\b0 1. After working as the band director at his home county's mental asylum, this composer gained notice with early works like Sevilliana, the Imperial March, Scenes from the Saga of King Olaf, and Scenes from the Bavarian Highlands, while works created during WWI include The Sanguine Fan and Carillon. Many critics consider his finest work to be the cantata The Dream of Gerontius, which followed shortly after his first major success, the Enigma Variations. FTP, who was this British composer best known for five marches entitled Pomp and Circumstance?\par
\tab Answer: Edward \b Elgar\b0\par
\par
\pard 2. The theme for this play is set in the first act, when the protagonist insults Oronte by attacking the quality of one of his sonnets, while in the final act a damaging letter causes Oronte, Acaste, and Clitandre to reject the coquettish Celimene. The protagonist's reasonable friend Philinte wins Eliante, while the protagonist, angered by the unjust loss of a court case and the dishonesty found in society, decides to flee to the country after seeing the results of his plan to always speak with complete honesty. FTP, what is this play about Alceste by Moliere?\par
\tab Answer: The \b Misanthrope\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 3. At the age of 10 this person was captured by Gros Ventres, and was later sold as a wife to Toussaint Charbonneau. Known as "Bird Woman", she, her husband, and her infant son were soon employed as interpreters, but her most valuable service to her employers was to secure horses needed to cross the Rockies from her native Shoshoni tribe. FTP, who was this Native American who took part in the Lewis and Clark Expedition?\par
\tab Answer: \b Sacagawea\b0\par
\par
4. Canvases by this artist include The Companions of Fear, The Castle of the Pyrenees, and The Tomb of the Wrestlers, and he also made analogues of famous paintings like David's Madame Recamier and Manet's The Balcony in which he replaced the figures with coffins. Influenced by de Chirico, he gained renown for the painting The Menaced Assassin, while works like Golconda and The Red Model demonstrate his use of visual paradoxes and everyday objects taken out of context, such as enormous rocks floating in air and fishes with legs. FTP, name this Belgian surrealist best-known for his recurring motifs of bowler hats and apples.\par
\tab Answer: Rene \b Magritte\b0\par
\par
\pard 5. This chemist coined the terms protein, allotropy, isomerism, and halogen, was the first to isolate zirconium, and proposed the system of chemical symbols and formulae now in use. By his observations of platinum's behaviour during some reactions he postulated catalysis, and he was able to estallish the validity of Proust's law of definite proportions and Dalton's atomic theory with the 2,000 relative atomic and molecular masses he determined. FTP, who was this Swedish chemist, the discoveror of the elements thorium, selenium, and cerium?\par
\tab Answer: Jons Jakob \b Berzelius\b0\par
\par
6. The largest river emptying into this lake is the Ramis, while the Desaquadero drains it at its southern end. The large island Isla del Sol lies just off the tip of the Copacabana Peninsula, and it is divided into two parts by the narrow Tiquina strait. Covering some 3,200 square miles, it extends in a northwest-to-southeast direction for a distance of 120 miles, and lies at 12,500 feet above sea level, making it the highest major lake in the world and second largest in South America behind Lake Maracaibo. FTP, what is this Andes lake on the Peru-Bolivia border?\par
\tab Answer: Lake \b Titicaca\b0\par
\par
7. One of the best of this man's early poems was "Neutral Tones", and he described his first meetings with his wife in a group of poems known as Veteris Vestigiae Flammae, or Vestiges of an Old Flame. Due to prompting by George Meredith he wrote a novel, Desperate Remedies, and began a series of novels set in an imaginary county of England in Under the Greenwood Tree, while his more famous works include The Trumpet-Major, and The Dynasts. FTP, who was this English writer, author of Far From the Madding Crowd and Jude the Obscure?\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0\tab Answer: Thomas \b Hardy\b0\par
\par
8. Number 11 is the Wild Duck, number 27 is the Dumbbell, entry 44 is the Beehive, 51 is the Whirlpool, and 64 is the Black Eye, and despite their name many of these objects were originally discovered by Pierre Mechain. In its first incarnation it consisted of 45 objects, but was later extended to 68 and finally to 103, and was intended as a list of objects that might be mistaken for comets, including its first entry, the Crab Nebula, which is designated M1. FTP, what is this famous star catalogue named for the Frenchman who compiled it?\par
\tab Answer: \b Messier\b0  Catalogue\par
\par
\f0 9\f1 . The content of this philosophical work is a story Apollodorus learned from Aristodemus, which begins with a suggestion by Eryximachus that a certain topic should be discussed and ends with a speech by a very drunk Alcibiades. The climax occurs when Socrates tells of what he has learned from the wise woman Diotima, which follows speechs on the nature of love by Phaedrus, Pausanias, Aristophanes, and the party's guest of honor, Agathon. FTP, what is this Platonic dialogue which takes its name from the dinner party where it is set?\par
\tab Answer: The \b Symposium\b0\par
\par
1\f0 0\f1 . This man's son David II succeeded him as king. As Earl of Carrick he swore fealty to England. He consolidated his power by stabbing his political rival John Comyn to death, and after being forced to flee to Ireland returned the next year to defeat the British at Loudoun Hill, but it would be another 21 years until he would be recognized as king in the Treaty of Northampton. FTP, who was this man who, with his 1314 victory at Bannockburn, established himself as KIng of the Scots?\par
\tab Answer: \b Robert\b0  the \b Bruce\b0\par
\par
\pard\f0 11. On a magazine assignment the narrator of this novel goes to the island of San Lorenzo, where the black adventurer Earl McCabe has been ousted by Papa Monzano with the aid of Franklin Hoenikker. Meanwhile, Lionel Boyd Johnson has become a spiritual leader by creating a religion called Bokononism. The climax occurs with Papa Monzano kills himself with an invention of Franklin\rquote s father Felix called ice-nine, which freezes any water in which it comes in contact. FTP, such is a description of what 1963 n\f1 ovel by Kurt Vonnegut?\par
\tab Answer: \b\f0 Cat\rquote s Cradle\b0\f1\par
\par
1\f0 2\f1 . An everlasting supply of boar's flesh is produced here by Saehrimnir, while mead is provided by the magical goat Heidrun. Possessing 540 gates through which 800 can pass at a time, it is here that the Einherjar are waited upon by the Valkyries, while the wolves Geri and Freki are fed at the feet of Odin. FTP, what is this great hall where slain soldiers await Ragnarok?\par
\tab Answer: \b Valhalla\b0\par
\par
1\f0 3\f1 . These bodies exist in a precisely folded three-dimensional L-shaped structure, and about 25 percent of its bases are unusual in being modifications of the four standard bases, such as methylations. Typically 70-90 nucleotides long, they are able to recognize the proper amino acid activating enzyme so that the proper amino acid will be sent to its free 2 prime or 3 prime OH group. Acting as adapters that translate nucleotide sequences of mRNA into protein sequences, FTP, what are these structures that carry amino acids to ribosomes during protein synthesis?\par
\tab Answer: \b transfer RNA\b0  or \b tRNA\b0  or \b transfer Ribonucleic adic\b0\par
\par
1\f0 4\f1 . This man's reign saw the subjugation of Bijapur and Golconda, attacks on the Uzbegs and Persians, and two wars in the Deccan. Coming to power in 1628, a severe illness in 1657 led to a succession war which saw his imprisonment by his son Aurangzeb, and on his death he was buried with his favorite wife, Mumtaz. FTP, who was this Mughal ruler who immortalized his wife with the construction in Agra of the Taj Mahal?\par
\tab Answer: Shah\b  Jahan\b0\par
\par
1\f0 5\f1 . In Act 5 Scene 4 of this play, the god Jupiter promises the ancestors of the male protagonist that he will care for him. In it, the evil Queen tries to secure her arrogant son Cloten's marriage to the female protagonist, who avoids death when the servant Pisanio refuses an order to murder her. This occurred after her husband Posthumus is tricked into believing Imogen has been unfaithful with Iachimo. FTP, what is this play whose title refers to a British king, written by William Shakespeare?\par
\tab Answer: \b Cymbeline\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 1\f0 6\f1 . The final passage in this book, consisting of Chapter 16, Verses 9-20 and accounting for the Resurrection, is omitted in some manuscripts and replaced by a shorter passage in others. Among its notable aspects is the author's emphasis on Jesus' reluctance to reveal himself as the Messiah, as well as the author's attention to the Passion, predicting it as early as chapter 8 and devoting the final third of the book to the last week in Jesus' life. The shortest and earliest of the four gospels, FTP, what is this second book of the four New Testament Gospels?\par
\tab Answer: The Holy Gospel of Jesus Christ According to St. \b Mark\b0\par
\par
\pard 1\f0 7\f1 . In the presence of hydrogen and nickel at 180 degrees Celsius this compound will reduce to cyclohexane. Remarkably resistant to oxidation, the fact that it does not show the properties normally associated with double bonds and the fact that the number of isomeric disubstituted ones is smaller than predicted led Linus Pauling to describe its structure as a hybrid state, which explains the odd distance of 1.39 angstroms between the bonded carbon atoms. This was an improvement on an 1865 proposal that its formula was a hexagon with alternating single and double bonds. FTP, what is this simplest aromatic hydrocarbon with formula C6 H6, whose original structure was proposed by August Kekule after experiencing a dream in which a snake bit its own tail?\par
\tab Answer: \b benzene\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 1\f0 8\f1 . By a 5-4 Supreme Court vote this endeavour was ruled constitutional in the Ashwander case. An independent public corporation governed by a board of three and originally chaired by Arthur Morgan, one of its purposes was to sell inexpensive fertilizers and electricity, and just nine years after its May 18, 1933 establishment it generated more electricity than any US utility due to its renovation of five dams and construction of 20 new ones, transforming a violent, uncontrolled river into an efficient inland-transportation system. FTP, what was this New Deal Authority established in a southern state?\par
\tab Answer: \b Tennessee Valley Authority\b0  or \b TVA\b0\par
\par
\pard\f0 19\f1 . This work consists of an introduction and five chapters whose titles include "Religious Affiliation and Social Stratification", "Luther's Conception of the Calling and the Task of the Investigation", and "The Religious Foundations of Worldly Asceticism". The author attempts to explain one reason for the modern view that turning a profit is virtuous, claiming that the psychological need for clues concerning whether one was saved ot damned led many Calvinists to seek worldly success, sparking the modern "spirit of capitalism". FTP, what is this major work by Max Weber?\par
\tab Answer: The \b Protestant Ethic\b0  and the Spirit of Capitalism\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0\par
\pard\f0 20. \f1 The protagonist of this novel is educated on matters of wealth and social position by Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Vance, while an encounter with Bob Ames inspires her to resume her career as an actress, prompting her to work on the New York stage under the name Madenda. Having left her hometown of Columbia City, Wisconsin for the Chicago apartment of her sister Minnie, she soon begins an affair with Charles Drouet, but her desire for material wealth and social connections leads her to leave Drouet for George Hurstwood, who commits suicide when she leaves him. FTP, what is this novel about Caroline Meeber, written by Theodore Dreiser?\par
\tab Answer: \b Sister Carrie\b0\par
\par
21. Shortly before his death this author began a new trilogy with the novel The Dunne Family, while his last collection of stories is Olive and Mary Anne. Arousing controversy with his frankly naturalistic style, he wrote a series of novels about the character Danny O'Neill, who first appeared in his most famous trilogy. FTP, who is this author of the Studs Lonigan trilogy?\par
\tab Answer: James T. \b Ferrell\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0\par
\b\page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #3 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
BONUSES\par
\b0\par
\pard 1. 30-20-10, name the novel from clues.\par
1. (30 points) Important plot developments are Frank Tovesky's shooting of his wife Marie and lover Emil, and the jealousy felt for the protagonist by her brothers Oscar and Lou.\par
(20 points) Throughout the novel, the protagonist longs for her childhood friend Carl Linstrum.\par
(10 points) Concerning Alexandra Bergson, it is the best-known work by Willa Cather.\par
\tab Answer: \b O Pioneers!\b0\par
\par
2. FTPE, answer the following about a certain 17th and 18th century philosopher.\par
1. (10 points) This philosopher's two major philosophical works were New Essays on the Human Understanding and 1710's Theodicy. His law holds that if one thing is identical to another, anything that is true of one must be true of the other.\par
\tab Answer: Wilhelm \b Leibniz\b0\par
2. (10 points) Leibniz's most famous theory held that the world is composed of an infinity of these substances created and maintained by God. It was named because Leibniz believed them to be simple and without parts.\par
\tab Answer: \b monads\b0\par
3. (10 points) This principle proposed by Leibniz stated that for any fact there is an a priori proof of why it is so and not otherwise. He used this principle to prove that the world did not begin at a moment in time, for there would be no criterion for it to have begun at one moment rather than another.\par
\tab Answer: principle of \b sufficient reason\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 3. FTPE, name these parts of the stomach.\par
1. (10 points) This part of the stomach is an opening leading down from the esophagus. Possessing a sphincter, it is named for its proximity to another body part.\par
\tab Answer: \b cardia\b0  or \b cardiac\b0  opening\par
2. (10 points) Between the cardia and the main body of the stomach is this section, an expanded area curving up above the cardiac opening.\par
\tab Answer: \b fundus\b0\par
3. (10 points) When contracted, the interior walls of the stomach form many of these folds which disappear when the walls are distended.\par
\tab Answer: \b rugae\b0\par
\par
4. FTPE, name the following people involved in the Dred Scott saga.\par
1. (10 points) This was the chief justice of the Supreme Court who claimed in his opinion that slaves had no standing to file lawsuits and that the Missouri Compromise was unconstitutional.\par
\tab Answer: Roger \b Taney\b0\par
2. (10 points) Scott's argument for freedom hinged on the fact that he had resided for several years in free states and territories while travelling with this Army doctor who was his owner until 1843.\par
\tab Answer: John \b Emerson\b0\par
3. (10 points) The defendant in the Dred Scott case changed when Emerson's sister gave him to this man, her brother.\par
\tab Answer: John F.A. \b Sanford\b0  (moderator note: the actual case name reads Dred Scott v. Sandford due to a mistake on the part of a court official)\par
\par
\pard 5. FTPE, name these female artists.\par
\f0 1. (10 points) This woman\rquote s work was strongly shaped by an accident in which a bus on which she was riding collided with a tramcar, leaving her with a shattered leg and unable to bear children. Known for works like Miscarriage in Detroit and Self Portrait with Monkey, she was the second wife of Diego Rivera.\f1\par
\tab Answer: Freda \b Kahlo\par
\b0\f0 2. (10 points) Author of the autobiography My Life\rquote s History, this artist was discovered when Luis Caldor saw her works in the window of the drugstore in Hoosick Falls, New York. Her picture The Old Oaken Bucket won the New York State Prize, making her the most famous of the \ldblquote na\'efve artists\rdblquote .\f1\par
\tab\f0 Answer: Anna Mary \ldblquote Grandma\rdblquote  \b\f1 Moses\b0\par
3. (10 points) This modern American artist is best-known for works like Powerplay, the Holocaust Project, the Birth Project, and The Dinner Party.\par
\tab Answer: Judy \b Chicago\b0  (or Judy Cohen)\par
\par
6. FTPE, D.H. Lawrence novels.\par
1. (10 points) Considered his first mature work, this novel tells how Paul Morel's relationship with his mother Gertrude overshadows his romances with Miriam Leviers and Clara Dawes.\par
\tab Answer: \b Sons and Lovers\b0\par
2. (10 points) This novel is concerned with three generations of the Brangwen family, especially Ursula, whose story is continued in Women in Love.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Rainbow\b0\par
3. (10 points) A coal miner named Sisson abandons his wife and family to live as a flutist, only to see his flute shattered during political riots in Italy.\par
\tab Answer: \b Aaron's Rod\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 7. 30-20-10, name the economist from books.\par
1. (30 points) A Tract on Monetary Reform\par
(20 points) The Economic Consequences of the Peace\par
(10 points) The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money\par
\tab Answer: John Maynard \b Keynes\b0\par
\par
\pard 8. FTPE, physical property.\par
1. (10 points) This is the property of certain liquid that causes it to flow without friction at very low temperatures.\par
\tab Answer: \b superfluidity\b0\par
2. (10 points) Superfluidity has been observed only in the two isotopes of this element.\par
\tab Answer: \b Helium\b0\par
3. (10 points) Helium-3 only becomes a superfluid at 93 hundred-thousandths of a Kelvin, whereas Helium-4 becomes a superfluid at a relatively higher temerature. To the nearest tenth, what is that temperature in Kelvins. You will receive 10 points for a correct answer, and 5 points if you are within one degree.\par
\tab Answer: \b 2.2\b0  Kelvin (5 points for 1.2-3.2) (the actual unrounded temperature is 2.172 K)\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 9. FTPE, name these descendants of Genghis Khan.\par
1. (10 points) After Genghis' death this son continued the Mongol invasions of eastern Europe until his death in 1241.\par
\tab Answer: Khakhan \b Ogodei\b0\par
2. (10 points) This grandson of Genghis Khan established the Yuan dynasty in China, centered at his new capital Cambuluc.\par
\tab Answer: \b Kublai\b0  Khan\par
3. (10 points) Kublai was not the only important grandosn of Genghis. Batu established the Golden Horde, while this grandson, the first of the Mongol Il-Khans of Iran, destroyed the Assassins and the Abbasid Empire before the Egyptians pushed him back into Iran.\par
\tab Answer: \b Hulagu\b0  Khan\par
\par
\pard 10. FTPE, answer the following.\par
1. (10 points) In Greek myth, the fates declared that this son of Oeneus would die as soon as a certain piece of wood was burnt up. He is famous for slaying the Calydonian boar.\par
\tab Answer: \b Meleager\b0\par
2. (10 points) After Meleager killed the Calydonian boar, he gave the head to this woman for drawing first blood. The daughter of Iasus and Clymene, she was obliged to marry Melanion after he defeated her in a foot race.\par
\tab Answer: \b Atalanta\b0\par
3. (10 points) After Meleager killed his mother's brothers for trying to stop him from giving Atalanta the head of the boar, this mother of Meleager threw the log on the fire, killing him.\par
\tab Answer: \b Althaea\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 11. FTPE, name these characters from James Joyce's Ulysses.\par
1. (10 points) The manager of Molly Bloom's concert tours and her current lover, this dandified cad is known as the "worst man in Dublin".\par
\tab Answer: Hugh "Blazes" \b Boylan\b0\par
2. (10 points) The son of the witty drunkard Simon and brother of Dilly, Katey, Maggy, and Boody, this young teacher shares the Martello tower with Buck Mulligan, and is known for his learnedness and fine singing.\par
\tab Answer: Stephen \b Dedalus\b0\par
3. (10 points) This is the drunkard whose funeral is the focal point of the morning's action in Ulysses. His son of the same name is introduced in Chapter X.\par
\tab Answer: Patrick \b Dignam\b0\par
\par
12. FTPE, name the following about a musical work.\par
1. (10 points) This set of 30 variations on a tranquil sarabande theme was commissioned to treat the insomnia of the Russian envoy to Saxony, and are named for the envoy's keyboardist. They should be known to trash players as the music playing while Hannibal Lecter escapes from custody in The Silence of the Lambs.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Goldberg Variations\b0\par
2. (5 points) Name the composer of the Goldberg Variations.\par
\tab Answer: \b J\b0 ohann \b S\b0 ebastian \b Bach\b0\par
3. (15 points) This was the insomniac for whom the Goldberg Variations were written.\par
\tab Answer: Count von \b Kayserling\b0\par
\par
13. FTPE, name these major abolitionists.\par
1. (10 points) This man was severely beaten by a proslavery mob in 1835 for his abolitionist views, which he once promoted by burning a copy of the Constitution on Independence Day. He ran the Liberator newspaper.\par
\tab Answer: William Lloyd \b Garrison\b0\par
2. (10 points) This abolitionist was shot dead in 1837 by a mob while trying to protect the printing press for his abolitionist newspaper, the Alton Observor.\par
\tab Answer: Elijah \b Lovejoy\b0\par
3. (10 points) This woman rose to fame after writing a letter to the Liberator, and soon embarked on a speaking tour with her sister Sarah. A dedicated abolitionist, she gave up public life after marrying fellow abolitionist Theodore Weld.\par
\tab Answer: Angelina Emily \b Grimke\b0\par
\par
\pard 14. FTPE, stuff about a class of chemical compounds.\par
1. (10 points) Produced by Kolbe's method, these saturated hydrocarbons all have general formula C n H 2n plus 2.\par
\tab Answer: \b alkanes\b0  or \b paraffins\b0\par
2. (10 points) With formula CH4, this is the simplest paraffin.\par
\tab Answer: \b methane\b0\par
3. (10 points) The paraffins methane, ethane, propane, butane, and pentane form the start of one of these series of related compounds that have the same functional group but differ in formula by a fixed group of atoms, in this case CH2.\par
\tab Answer: \b homologous \b0 series\par
\par
15. 30-20-10, name the album from songs.\par
1. (30 points) Mothers of the Disappeared, Red Hill Mining Town\par
(20 points) In God's Country, Bullet the Blue Sky\par
(10 points) With or Without You, I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For\par
\tab Answer: The \b Joshua Tree\b0\par
\par
16. 5-10-15, name these characters from Gone With the Wind.\par
1. (5 points) This is Scarlett O'Hara's third husband.\par
\tab Answer: \b Rhett Butler\b0  (accept either name)\par
2. (10 points) Throughout the novel Scarlett is attracted to this honorable man who is happily married.\par
\tab Answer: \b Ashley Wilkes \b0 (accept either name)\b\par
\b0 3. (15 points) Scarlett's love for Ashley Wilkes is frustrated when he marries this gentle woman.\par
\tab Answer: \b Melanie Hamilton\b0  (accept either name)\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 17. F\f0 15\f1 PE, name these events named for months of the French Republican Calender.\par
\f0 1\f1 . (1\f0 5\f1  points) O\f0 n\f1  the 12th and 13th of this month in 1795, royalists rose in protest of a decree reserving two-thirds of the National Convention for outgoing members. It was crushed by Barras, who brought in Napoleon to quell the unrising.\par
\tab Answer: \b Vendemiaire\b0\par
\f0 2\f1 . (1\f0 5\f1  points) This 1799 coup was orgainzed by Sieyes, Talleyrand, and Cambaceres to produce limited constitutional changes, but ended with the overthrow of the Directory. Ironically, although Napoleon\f0  \f1 emerged from it as First Consul, he bungled his part in the coup and had to be rescued by his brother Lucien.\par
\tab Answer: \b Brumaire\b0  Coup\par
\par
\pard 18. FTPE, answer the following about an Old Testament figure.\par
1. (10 points) The only female judge, this Hebrew prophet predicted the Hebrew defeat of tyrannous Jabin of the Canaanites, and is famous f\f0 o\f1 r her song of triumph.\par
\tab Answer: \b Deborah\b0\par
2. (10 points) Deborah summoned this man to fight against the tyranny of Jabin and accompanied him into battle.\par
\tab Answer: \b Barak\b0\par
3. (10 points) Deborah and Barak were victorious against this captain of Jabin's armies. He was killed with a tent pin while taking refuge in the tent of Jael.\par
\tab Answer: \b Sisera\b0\par
\par
19. FTPE, name these volcanos.\par
1. (10 points) Standing at the southern end of the Cascade Range in northern California, this mountain erupted without warning in 1914, and has shown evidence of a 65-year cycle for volcanic activity.\par
\tab Answer: \b Lassen\b0  Peak\par
2. (10 points) The Halemaumau, or Fern House, Pit is the most active vent of this volcano. Found near Mauna Loa on southeastern Hawaii Island, its name means "Much Spreading", and it is the world's largest active volcanic mass.\par
\tab Answer: \b Kilauea\b0\par
3. (10 points) Alexander von Humboldt made the first unsuccessful attempt to scale this volcano in central Ecuador. Possessing an almost perfectly symmetrical cone interrupted only by the Inca's Head, its height of 19,347 feet makes it the world's highest continuously active volcano.\par
\tab Answer: \b Cotopaxi\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 20. 30-20-10, name the mathematician.\par
\f0 1. (30 points) His father was lieutenant general of the armies of Louis XIV. On his death he left the manuscript for his second book, Traite analytique, but he is more important for 1696\rquote s Analyse des infiniment petits pour l\rquote intelligence des lignes courbes.\f1\par
(20 points) The above cited book was the first ever textbook on differential calculus, and contained the technique for which he is know primarily known.\par
(10 points) Although not discovered by him, he is the namesake of a rule concerning the limit of a function whose numerator and denominator tend to zero or infinity.\par
\tab Answer: Guillaume-Francois-Antoine de \b\f0 L\rquote Hospital\b0\f1\par
\fs24\par
\pard\par
}
 