{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult0\lang1033\b\f0\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #5 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
TOSSUPS\b0\par
\par
1. Entering the navy in 1809, this leader first gained favorable attention for his plans for officer education, improved gunnery training, and a naval engineer corps. In 1837 he took command of the Fulton, one of the first naval steamships, and during the early 1840s he aided the British in suppression of the slave trade, but is best known for negotiating the Treaty of Kanagawa. FTP, who was this brother of another naval leader who anchored off Yedo Bay in Japan in 1853 in order to force open Japanese ports to U.S. trade?\par
\tab Answer: \b M\b0 atthew \b Perry\b0  (moderator's note: This Matthew Perry was not addicted to painkillers)\par
\par
\pard\f1 2. Connected to the Neales River, this lake\rquote s northern and southern parts are connected by the narrow Goyder Channel. Its lowest part lies 50 feet below sea level, which causes it to fill completely only twice a century, and although it is occasionally partially filled by flood waters delivered by rivers like the Diamantina it is normally dry, during which times its extremely flat surface has made it a site of attempts to establish land speed records. FTP, what is this great salt lake located in the sou\f0 thwest corner of the Great Artesian Basin in central South Australia?\par
\tab Answer: Lake \b Eyre\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 3. This author's novel Mr. Stone and the Knight's Companion marked a change in style from his first three novels, The Mystic Masseur, The Suffrage of Elvira, and Miguel Street. His recent work includes the novel A Way of the World, and he won a Booker Prize for In a Free State, but he is better known for works like A Bend in the River. FTP, who is this Trinidadian novelist, author of A House For Mr. Biswas and winner of the 2001 Nobel Prize in literature?\par
\tab Answer: V(idiadhar) S(urajprassad) \b Naipaul\b0\par
\par
4. Shortly before his death this composer wrote a third opera, entitled The Bigamist, while his songs include The Toasting Cup, The Gulf of Finland, "Where is our rose?", and "I recall a wonderful moment". Several trips to Spain influenced his First and Second Spanish Overtures, but he is better known for works related to his native land, including his opera Ruslan and Ludmilla and a work originally titled Ivan Susanin. FTP, who is this father of Russian classical music best-known for his first opera, A Life For the Tsar?\par
\tab Answer: Mikhail \b Glinka\b0\par
\par
5. Among the parts of the body named for this scientist are corpuscles of the spleen, tufts in the kidney, and the deep layer of the epidermis. Personal pyhsician to Pope Innocent XII, he studied the metamorphosis of the silkworm, described the structure of the brain, spinal cord, and taste buds, and used his studies of frogs to describe the capillary circulation of the lungs. FTP, who was this 17th century Italian whose use of the microscope has led him to be called the father of microscopic anatomy?\par
\tab Answer: Marcello \b Malpighi\b0\par
\par
\pard 6. This battle led directly to the Treaty of Pressburg. Fought in Moravia, Alexander I convinced Francis I to attack before reinforcements arrived, and their complicated plan to encircle the French allowed Napoleon to split the Austrian and Russian forces and defeat each half. Fought on December 2, 1805, FTP, what was this battle known as the Battle of the Three Emperors since all three emperors were present on the field commanding their troops?\par
\tab Answer: \b Austerlitz\b0  (accept early Battle of the Three Emperors)\par
\par
7. During the Trojan War, the bones of this king were brought to Troy because of a prophecy that this was the only way the Greeks could conquer the city. He had become king of Pisa by convincing Myrtilus to remove the linchpins from the chariot of King Oenomaus, so that when he carried off Oenomaus' daughter Hippodameia her father was thrown from the vehicle and dragged to death. However, this man then betrayed Myrtilus, leading Myrtilus to curse his sons. FTP, who was this man who possessed an ivory shoulder after being cut to pieces by his father Tantalus and served as a meal to the gods?\par
\tab Answer: \b Pelops\b0\par
\par
\f1 8. Important developments in this novel are often related by the sewing-machine salesman V.K. Ratliff, and include a crooked horse-trading deal struck by Pat Stamper and the schoolteacher Labove\rquote s failed seduction of one of the female protagonists. The central character becomes wealthy by conning Henry Armstid into believing there is buried treasure at the Old Frenchman place. Initially given a job as a store clerk to placate his father Ab, he later marries into a rich family when Hoake McCarron abandon\f0 s Eula Varner. FTP, what is this novel detailing the rise of Flem Snopes, the first in a trilogy by William Faulkner?\par
\tab Answer: The \b Hamlet\b0\par
\par
9. Some of these units possess an attenuator site which can control processes according to the amount of end-product found in the cell. If a represser molecule binds to one of its adjacent loci transcription is prevented, but if an inducer binds to the represser its promoter site can bind the RNA polymerase, initiating transcription of its structural genes. Proposed in the Jacob-Monod hypothesis and modeled after the lac version, FTP, what are these genetic units which control gene expression in bacteria.\par
\tab Answer: \b operons\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 10. Anecdotes about the deeds of this religious leader are found in the Janam-sakhis, and relate his travels to such places as Rome and China. Born into the mercantile Khatri caste in the village of Rai Bhoi di Talvandi, he worked in a granary until his religion inspired a lengthy period of travels. Until his death, when he was replaced by his hand-picked successor Angad, he preached salvation by meditation on the name of God from his home in the village of Kartarpur, and his hymns dedicated to this purpose are collected in the Adi-Granth. FTP, who was this first guru of Sikhism?\par
\tab Answer: Guru \b Nanak\b0\par
\par
11. One of this thinker's main ideas called for the distribution of goods amongst free individuals who cooperated spontaneously outside a framework of state authority, a philosophy he called "mutualism". Considered Marx's main rival in the international socialist movement, he gained notoriety for his violent attacks on French church and state in 1858's La Justice dans la Revolution et dans l'Eglise, while many critics consider his best work to be Systeme des contradictiones economiques. FTP, who was this thinker best-known for denouncing private ownership in his seminal work What is Property?\par
\tab Answer: Pierre Joseph \b Proudhon\b0\par
\par
12. Having fought in the Chaco War, this man served as commander-in-chief of his nation's armed forces from 1951-54, and in 1954 he ousted President Frederico Chavez. Nicknamed Colonel Trunk, he essentially ruled as a totalitarian, and membership in his Colorado Party was a requirement for most jobs. His country became notorious for its illegal trade, drug trafficing, and harboring of NAZI war criminals, and in 1989 he was ousted by so-called "traditionalists" led by Andres Rodriguez. FTP, who was this son of a German immigrant, the long-time president of Paraguay?\par
\tab Answer: Alfredo \b Stroessner\b0\par
\par
13. The English manifesto for this art movement was entitled Circle. Rejecting the idea that art must serve a social purpose, the brothers Antoine Pevsner and Naum Gabo issued their Realist Manifesto, in which they conceived of a purely abstract art that reflected modern machinery and technology and which used inductrial materials, and their ideas were applied to architecture and design by Alexander Rodchenko, among others. FTP, what was this Russian art movement founded in 1913 by Vladimir Tatlin?\par
\tab Answer: \b Constructivism\b0\par
 \par
14. Among the disadvantages to using this type of device is its bulky size and the need for a constant supply of gas. Its most basic version contains a compartment filled with a hot alkaline electrolyte, which separates porous sintered nickel electrodes. A supply of gaseous hydrogen is fed to a compartment containing the porous cathode, while oxygen is fed to a compartment containing the porous anode, and after the hydrogen reacts with the hydroxide ions in the electrolyte two electrons are released, which then flow to the anode through an external circuit. FTP, such is a description of what cell which is more efficient in converting electric energy than a heat engine?\par
\tab Answer: \b fuel cell\b0\par
\par
15. Among the characters in this novel are the slave girl Sada, who risks her life to pray before a statue of the Virgin Mary, and Jacinto, who risks his life protecting the secrets of the Navajo faith. The protagonist, an aristocrat from Auvergne, France, initially comes into conflict with the morally suspect Padre Martinez, but with the aid of his friend Joseph Vaillant he is soon successful enough in his endeavours to build the cathedral in Sante Fe which eventually becomes his resting place. FTP, what is this novel about Archbishop Jean Latour's attempts to bring Catholicism to the American West, written by Willa Cather?\par
\tab Answer: \b Death Comes for the Archbishop\b0\par
\par
16. Originally named Alekseyev, this man joined Vladimir Nemirovitch-Danchenko in founding the Moscow Art Theater, producing plays like The Seagull and The Lower Depths. Author of the autobiography My Life in Art, he headed the Bolshoi Opera Studio, which was later named for him, and founded the Opera Drama Studio. FTP, who is this actor, director, and producer best-known for his innovative "method" style of acting?\par
\tab Answer: Konstantin \b Stanislavsky\par
\b0\par
17. This scandal was brought to light due to the secret investigation of Benjamin Bristow. Led by John McDonald, it was centered in Milwaukee, Chicago, and St. Louis, and defrauded the US treasury of $2 million in excise taxes. In its aftermath, the government indicted 238 people, including the president's private secretary Oliver Babcock, but President Grant himself was cleared of any wrongdoing. FTP, what was this conspiracy involving distillers of a certain alcoholic beverage?\par
\tab Answer: \b Whiskey\b0  \b Ring\b0\par
\par
18. This author of the essay collection Sociology and Anthropology was renowned for his encyclopedic recall of ethnographic knowledge, and although he never did field work, he focused the attention of French thinkers on ethnology. Among his early works was 1899's Sacrifice: Its Nature and Function, but he is more important for his novel ideas concerning the forms of exchange in Melanesia, Polynesia, and northwestern North America. FTP, who was this nephew of Emile Durkheim, author of Essai sur le don, or The Gift?\par
\tab Answer: Marcel \b Mauss\par
\b0\par
\pard 19. An important feature of this model is that qualitative predictions about deviations from ideal shapes can be made on the basis of differences in the sizes of the domains involved. Developed by Gillespie and Nyholm based on proposals by Sidgwick and Powell, its basic postulate is that the region of space occupied by a pair of electrons can be approximately represented by a sphere, with the preferred arrangements of pairs those in which the spheres are closely packed around the core of the atom. A simple method for predicting the arrangements of bonds around an atom in a covament molecule, FTP, what is this model with a five-letter acronym?\par
\tab Answer: \b VSEPR\b0  or \b Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion\b0\par
\par
\f1 20. The historical event at the center of the novel is the murder of the \ldblquote Red Fox\rdblquote  of Glenure. The miserly villain Ebenezer has his nephew, the protagonist, carried off on a ship bound for the Carolinas, where he meets the Jacobite Alan Breck. Escaping with Alan when the ship sinks on the coast of Mull, they witness the murder of Colin Campbell, and after suspicion falls on them they make a perilous escape across the Highlands, while in the sequel Catriona David Balfour tries to gain the acquittal of Ja\f0 mes Stewart of the Glens. FTP, what is this novel by Robert Louis Stevenson whose title indicates what happened to Balfour?\par
\tab Answer: \b Kidnapped\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 21.This group's name comes from the Peshto for "seekers". Formed by theological students in the south of their country with the intention of unifying the country, the experienced early setbacks before defeating rival Mujaheddin forces and capturing Herat in September 1995 and the capital a year later, executing former president Najibullah. Currently opposed by UIFSA forces int he northeast, they have instituted a strict Islamic code of law, restricting the role of women and banning television. FTP, what is this group which currently rules Afghanistan?\par
\tab Answer: \b Taliban\b0\par
\par
\b\page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par
PACKET #5 BY KELLY MCKENZIE\par
\par
BONUSES\par
\b0\par
1. FTPE, name these works by John Donne.\par
1. (10 points) Opening with the line "As virtuous men pass mildly away", in this poem Donne disparages "dull sublunary lovers' love", and compares the souls of he and his beloved to a compass.\par
\tab Answer: A \b Valediction: Forbidding Mourning\b0\par
2. (10 points) Opening with the famous line "For God's sake hold your tongue, and let me love", this poem's opening five stanzas correspond to the Christian rite of the title, and attempts to defend the holiness of Donne's love.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Canonization\b0\par
3. (10 points) This series of 19 devotional poems is a passionate declaration of Donne's love for God, and includes such poems as "Thou hast made me", "I am a little world", "If poisonous minerals", "Batter My Heart", and "Death, Be Not Proud".\par
\tab Answer: \b Holy Sonnets\b0  (or Divine Meditations or Divine Sonnets)\par
\par
2. FTPE, name the following about an ancient people.\par
1. (10 points) Appearing in Anatolia at the beginning of the 2nd millennium BC, these people established their capital at Hattusa, and under leaders like Hattusilis and Mursilis they gained dominance in the region, reaching their height under Suppiluliumas.\par
\tab Answer: \b Hittites\b0\par
2. (10 points) This last king of the Hittite Old Kingdon is famous for issuing his namesake edict which attempted to end lawlessness and regulate the royal succession.\par
\tab Answer: \b Telipinus\b0\par
3. (10 points) This major ancient battle occurred in 1275 BC when Ramses II and Muwatallis struggled for control of Syria. Muwatallis trapped Ramses' main force, but the Egyptian rear-guard intervened, leading to an indecisive conclusion.\par
\tab Answer: \b Kadesh\b0\par
\par
3. FTPE, name these famous violin making families.\par
1. (10 points) In the 16th century this family's first notable member, Andrea, established the Cremona school of violin making. Andrea's two sons Antonio and Girolamo were known as the brothers of this family, while the most famous member was Nicolo, who taught many other famous violin makers.\par
\tab Answer: \b Amati\b0\par
2. (10 points) This family's Antonio began innovating in the violin's design while still a pupil of Nicolo Amati, but was soon famous for the perfection of his craftmanship and his innovative "long" violins. His sons Francesco and Omobono were also violin makers.\par
\tab Answer: \b Stradivari\b0 (us)\par
3. (10 points) Andrea worked with Stradivarius in the workshop of Nicolo Amati, while his son Pietro Giovanni became known for experiments with the size o\f1 f\f0  the sound hole. Paganini used a violin of the most famous member, Giuseppe del Gesu, whose violins usually possess his trademark inscription of "l.H.S", a massive construction designed for tone rather than appearance, and sap marks running parallel with the fingerboard.\par
\tab Answer: \b Guarneri\b0\par
\par
4. FTPE, answer the following about joints. \par
1. (10 points) This is the name for the immovable joints between the bones of the skull.\par
\tab Answer: \b sutures\b0\par
2. (10 points) This is a joint which is only slightly movable; examples include the joints between the vertebrae of the vertebral column and that between the two pubic hones in the pelvic girdle.\par
\tab Answer: \b symphysis\b0\par
3. (10 points) This is a smooth round knob of bone that fits into a socket on an adjoining bone, forming a joint which permits up-and-down and side-to-side movement, but not rotation. A famous example is the occipital one.\par
\tab Answer: \b condyle\b0\par
\par
\pard 5. FTPE, name these figures from Far East myth.\par
1. (10 points) Portrayed as a nine-foot tall giant with a two-foot long beard, a scarlet face, the eyes of a phoenix and eyebrows of silkworks, this is the Taoist god of war. Also a god of literature for memorizing one of the Confusian classics, he is based on the curd-seller Zhang.\par
\tab Answer: \b Guan-di\b0  (or Kuan-ti or Kuan Yu)\par
2. (10 points) These Japanese demons look like humans except that they have three eyes, big mouths, horns, and sharp nails. They seize the souls of the wicked on their deathbeds, and are opposed by Shoki, god of the afterlife.\par
\tab Answer: \b Oni\b0\par
3. (10 points) Represented by a mirror, this goddess's main sanctuary is Ise-Jingue, which is torn down every twenty years and rebuilt. The Shinto sun goddess, she once retreated into a cave to avoid her brother Susanowo, but was finally lured out by Uzume, returning light to the world.\par
\tab Answer: \b Amaterasu\b0  (or Ama Terasu or Omikami or Tensho Daijan)\par
\par
6. FTPE, name the characters encountered by Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.\par
1. (10 points) When Holden leaves Pencey he leaves behind the boring Ackley and this conceited athlete who had been his roommate.\par
\tab Answer: \b Stradlater\b0\par
2. (10 points) One morning Holden meets this old girlfriend and takes her ice skating, but she leaves him when he proposes that they run away to the New England countryside.\par
\tab Answer: \b Sally Hayes\b0  (accept either name)\par
3. (10 points) Before running away to the West, Holden goes to see this sister one more time, but after seeing her is unable to leave.\par
\tab Answer: \b Phoebe\b0  Caulfield\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 7. FTPE, name the following about the State of Franklin.\par
1. (10 points) Franklin grew out of this semi-autonomous government formed in what is now northeast Tennessee in 1772. Authors of probably the first written constitution adopted by native-born Americans, in 1776 it asked to be annexed by North Carolina due to Indian threats.\par
\tab Answer: \b Watauga\b0  Association\par
2. (10 points) When North Carolina ceded its western lands in 1784 the State of Franklin was formed with this man elected leader for three years. He would later become the first governor of Tennessee.\par
\tab Answer: John \b Sevier\b0\par
3. (10 points) North Carolina soon repealed the cession of their lands, and encouraged opponents of John Sevier, led by this man, to maintain North Carolina government in the region.\par
\tab Answer: John \b Tipton\b0\par
\par
\pard 8. FTPE, answer the following about a psychologist.\par
1. (10 points) This German-born American psychologist argued that there are personal crises that are central to each of eight stages of what he termed "psychosocial" development, coining the term "identity crisis" in this context.\par
\tab Answer: Erik \b Erikson\b0\par
2. (10 points) Erik Erikson developed his ideas, including the "identity crisis", in this seminal 1950 work.\par
\tab Answer: \b Childhood and Society\b0\par
3. (10 points) Erikson is also known for "psychohistories", including this 1958 book about a 16th century German theologian.\par
\tab Answer: \b Young Man Luther\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 9. FTPE, name these types\f1  \f0 of fluids.\par
1. (10 points) This is a common type of fluid in which the velocity gradient is directly proportional to the shear stress.\par
\tab Answer: \b Newtonian\b0  fluid\par
2. (10 points) While many fluids are Newtonian, some are not. This is a type of liquid in which the viscosity increases as the velocity gradient increases, that is, the faster the liquid flows the more viscous it becomes.\par
\tab Answer: \b dilatant\b0  liquid\par
3. (10 points) A more common type of non-Newtonisn fluid than dilatant fluids are these fluids in which the viscosity depends not only on the velocity gradient but also on the time for which it has been applied. Thus these liquids become less viscous the faster they flow.\par
\tab Answer: \b thixotropic\b0  liquids\par
\par
\pard 10. FTPE, name the following about Jainism.\par
1. (10 points) The founder of Jainism, Vardhamana, is now known by this title meaning "Great Hero".\par
\tab Answer: \b Mahavira\b0\par
2. (10 points) Mahavira was the 24th and last of these saviors who have succeeded in crossing over life's stream of rebirths and has made a path for others to follow. Meaning "ford-maker", other famous ones include Parsvanatha and Rsabhanatha.\par
\tab Answer: \b Tirthankaras\b0  (or \b Jina\b0 )\par
3. (10 points) In contrast to the Digambara sect, this other major sect of Jainism featires monks and nuns who wear simple white garments.\par
\tab Answer: \b Svetambara\b0  (prompt on white-clad or white-robed)\par
\par
11. FTPE, name these poems by Wallace Stevens.\par
1. (10 points) In three four-line stanzas the speaker tells of placing the title object on a Tennessee hillside, symbolizing how a work of art can bring order to the world.\par
\tab Answer: \b Anecdote of the Jar\b0\par
2. (10 points) Divided into 33 parts, this poem is constructed as a set of variations suggested by a Picasso painting, \f1 and\f0  relates reality, symbolized by the color green, and imagination, represented by the title color.\par
\tab Answer: The \b Man With the Blue Guitar\b0\par
3. (10 points) In eight 15-line stanzas Stevens describes an elegant, emancipated modern woman who considers the end of life while on her tropical patio rather than in church. The title indicates when the poem takes place.\par
\tab Answer: \b Sunday Morning\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 12. FTPE, name these leaders of Hungary during the 20th century.\par
1. (10 points) This man became communist premier for four months in 1919, but was forced to flee by counterrevolutionaries. He was liquidated during the communist purges of the late 1930s.\par
\tab Answer: Bela \b Kun\b0\par
2. (10 points) Premier from 1953-55, this man was removed from office for criticising Soviet influence. Briefly reilstalled during the Hungarian Uprising of 1956, he was soon tried and executed by the Soviets.\par
\tab Answer: Imre \b Nagy\b0\par
3. (10 points) Rising to prominence with his prosecution of Laszlo Rajk, this man was premier from 1956-58 and 1961-65, and was first secretary of the Socialist Workers' Party. He led the counter-revolutionaries during the Hungarian Uprising, but developed "goulash communism" until replaced as party leader by Karoly Grosz in 1988.\par
\tab Answer: Janos \b Kadar\b0\par
\par
\pard 13. FTPE, name these geography things found off the west coast of Africa.\par
1. (10 points) This major gulf extends from Cape Lopez, Gabon to Cape Palmas. Its tributaries include the Casamance, Volta, and Niger.\par
\tab Answer: Gulf of \b Guinea\b0\par
2. (10 points) This innermost bay of the Gulf of Guinea extends east and then south for 370 miles from the Nun outlet of the Niger River to Cape Lopez, Gabon.\par
\tab Answer: \b Bight of Biafra\b0\par
3. (10 points) This island nation sits in the Gulf of Guinea west of Gabon. In addition to the two islands which give it its name, it also consists of the islands Pedras, Tinhosas, and Rolas.\par
\tab Answer: \b Sao Tome and Principe\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 14. FTPE, name these pioneers in the study of tissues and cells.\par
1. (10 points) This Frenchman is known as the father of histology for discovering and naming 21 different types of tissues during the late 18th century.\par
\tab Answer: Marie \b Bichat\b0\par
2. (10 points) This German discovered pepsin and coined the term metabolism, but is more important for the ideas found in his book Microscopical Researches on the Similarity in the Structure and Growth of Animals and Plants, in which he concluded that all \f1 o\f0 rganisms consist entirely of cells. With Matthias Schleiden he is considered the father of cell theory.\par
\tab Answer: Theodor \b Schwann\b0\par
3. (10 points) Known for his motto "All cels from cells", this German was the first to describe leukemia, and is considered the father of cellular pathology due to his appropriately named 1858 book Cellular Pathology.\par
\tab Answer: Rudoph \b Virchow\b0\par
\par
\pard 15. FTPE, answer the following about a writer.\par
1. (10 points) Published in 1918, this collection of short biographical sketches broke new ground in the field of biography with its brief, intensely personal portraits of people like Thomas Arnold, Cardinal Manning, and Florence Nightingale.\par
\tab Answer: \b Eminent Victorians\b0\par
2. (10 points) Who wrote Eminent Victorians?\par
\tab Answer: Lytton \b Strachey\b0\par
3. (10 points) Another important Strachey work is this 1928 biography which chronicles an aged Tudor queen's relationship with the young Robert Devereux.\par
\tab Answer: \b Elizabeth and Essex\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 16. FTPE, name these ships involved in major incidents in U.S. history.\par
1. (10 points) In 1861 Charles Wilkes's San Jacinto intercepted this ship and imprisoned John Mason and James Slidell, two Confederate envoys en route to Britain. They were released because the seizure aroused violent anti-US sentiments in Britain.\par
\tab Answer: USS \b Trent\b0\par
2. (10 points) In 1975 a communist gunboat claimed this ship had violated Cambodian territory and took the ship and its 39 crewmen into custody. Ford ordered the USS Holt to retake the ship by force from the Khmer Rouge, and after bombing raids, the Khmer Rouge released the crew.\par
\tab Answer: SS \b Mayaguez\b0\par
3. (10 points) In 1891 two US sailors from this cruiser were killed in a brawl in Valparaiso. War between the U.S. and Chile was only averted after Chile issued an apology.\par
\tab Answer: USS \b Baltimore\b0\par
\par
17. FTPE, name these artists of 15th century Netherlands.\par
1. (10 points) Petrus Christus was the main follower of this artist of The Madonna With Chancellor Rolin, The Madonna with Canon van der Paele, Man in a Red Turban, and The Arnolfini Wedding.\par
\tab Answer: Jan van \b Eyck\b0\par
2. (10 points) Named for three paintings erroneously thought to come from a town near Liege, the identity of this artist is generally accepted to be Robert Campin. With van Eyck the founder of the Netherlandish school, his important works include the Merode Alterpiece and The Virgin and Child before a Firescreen.\par
\tab Answer: the \b Master of Flemalle\b0\par
3. (10 points) City painter of Louvain, his work is characterized by extremely slender figures set in beautiful landscapes. Important works include the Last Supper for the chuirch of S. Pierre and two panels on the Justice of Emperor Otto.\par
\tab Answer: Dirk (or Dieric) \b Bouts\b0\par
\par
\pard 18. FTPE, name these 20th century philosophers who were all influenced by Kierkegaard.\par
1. (10 points) This author of The Kingship of God and Tales of Rabbi Nachman distinguished between two types of relationships which he described as I-It and I-Thou.\par
\tab Answer: Martin \b Buber\b0\par
2. (10 points) This German's main importance stems from his denial of the possibility of natural theology, summed up in his contention "Belief cannot argue with unbelief, it can only preach to it". He was the author of Epistle to the Romans and Church Dogmatics.\par
\tab Answer: Karl \b Barth\b0\par
3. (10 points) This French Catholic was the main proponent of Christian existentialism, and attacked Sartre's undisciplined view of morality and insistance on the loneliness of the soul in works like Being and Having, Introduction to a Metaphysic of Hope, and Creative Fidelity.\par
\tab Answer: Gabriel \b Marcel\b0\par
\par
19. F15PE, name these authors who are among the most obscure to have won the Nobel Prize in Literature.\par
1. (15 points) This Frenchman is most famous for studying pre-World War I society in Jean Barois and the eight-part series Les Thibaults. He won the Nobel in 1937.\par
\tab Answer: Roger \b Martin du Gard\b0\par
2. (15 points) Examining middle class characters from his native Bordeaux who are tormented by lack of the grace of God, this winner of the 1952 Nobel is best-known for The Kiss to the Leper and Therese Desqueyroux.\par
\tab Answer: Francois \b Mauriac\b0\par
\par
\pard\sl240\slmult0 20. FTPE, answer the following from chemistry.\par
1. (10 points) Symbolized E sub A, this is the minimum energy required for a chemical reaction to take place.\par
\tab Answer: \b activation\b0  energy\par
2. (10 points) The activation energy shows up in this equation which shows how the reaction rate varie\f1 s\f0  with temperature. It is stated as k equals A over e raised to the E sub A over RT.\par
\tab Answer: \b Arrhenius\b0  equation\par
3. (10 points) This equation is used extensively to describe chemical reactions. Named for the developer of activation-complex theory, it states that the rate constant equals capital K lower-case k T over h times e raised to negative the free energy of activation divided \f1 by\f0  lower-case k T.\par
\tab Answer: \b Eyring\b0 's equation\par
\fs24\par
\pard\par
}
 