{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margb720\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENTS\par PACKET BY MICHIGAN A/CORNELL\par \par TOSSUPS\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 1. This poem ends each of its 4 stanzas with the same invocation, though the last line becomes a positive statement with the insertion of the word \'93enjoy\'94. The speaker compares himself to a \'93committed linnet\'94, or finch, and celebrates the title character, imagining himself \'93tangled in her hair\'94 and \'93fettered to her eye\'94, much preferring the restraining effects of love to the literal restraints he must deal with. FTP identify this 1649 work by Robert Lovelace that includes the lines \'93Stone walls do not a prison make/ Nor iron bars a cage.\'94\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 To Althea, from Prison\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  \par \par 2. Though he was to be burned at the stake, Vincente de Valverde converted him on his death-bed and he was strangled instead. He was enjoying a recent military victory at the hot springs in Cajamarca when a force of 180 men arrived to take him hostage. The son of an Ecuadorian princess, he ruled the Northern part of his empire until his victory over Huascar in 1532 consolidated the empire, but his supreme rule was cut short by the former governor of Panama, Francisco Pizarro. FTP identify this 13\plain\f16\fs20\up6\super\cf1 th\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  and last emperor of the Incan empire.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Atahuallpa\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 3. Swelling and the appearance of calcium deposits in this organelle signify that the cell is undergoing necrosis. Bounded by a smooth outer membrane, its inner membrane consists of several shelf-like folds called cristae. Possessing its own type of DNA, it contains the machinery for synthesizing proteins. FTP, what is this organelle which provides energy for animal cells.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 mitochondrion\plain\f16\fs20  (or mitochondria)\par \par 4. Sharing its name with a lake in southeast Wisconsin, the Venoge and Dranse are two of the three major rivers that drain it, and the Strait of Promenthoux divides it into two sections.  Its northern shore gives way to the wine-producing Jura region, and resorts on this lake include \'c9vian-les-Baines, Montreux, and Lausanne.  FTP, identify this crescent-shaped lake formed by the Rh\'f4ne River and named for a city in Switzerland.\par \tab Answer: Lake \plain\b\f16\fs20 Geneva\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 5. One of this composer's highly influential works was his \plain\i\f16\fs20 String Octet in\plain\f16\fs20  \plain\i\f16\fs20 E-flat Major\plain\f16\fs20 . Also an important conductor whose performance of the St. Matthew Passion rejuvenated the reputation of Bach, this composer of the "Elijah" oratorio was inspired by the waves on the Scottish coast, leading to the "Hebrides" overture. FTP, who was this composer of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" Overture and the "Italian" Symphony?\par \tab Answer: Felix \plain\b\f16\fs20 Mendelssohn\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 6. The locale of this story and its \'93flush times\'94 become news in Red Dog after the pony expressman leaves. Many of the tough residents attribute the changes that occur at the site to the arrival of the title character, whose \'91rasslin\'92 tendencies impress Kentuck, and make Man O\'92War Jack start singing lullabies. Stumpy eventually names him and raises the boy on Ass\'92s milk, but it is John Oakhurst who first gives the boy his nickname for surviving the birth that kills his mom, Cherokee Sal. FTP, identify this short story featured in the Overland Monthly in 1868, one of Bret Harte\'92s most famous works.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Luck of Roaring Camp\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 7. His papers were published posthumously as \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Farther Reaches of Human Nature\plain\f16\fs20 .  Instead of studying troubled clinical cases, he studied normal individuals, including Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, and Eleanor Roosevelt, and based his theories on common traits he encountered in their histories.  In \plain\i\f16\fs20 Toward a Psychology of Being\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Motivation and Personality\plain\f16\fs20 , he put forth the idea that each person has a hierarchy of needs which must be satisfied.  FTP, identify this proponent of the theory of self-acutalization.\par \pard \fi720 Answer: Abraham Harold \plain\b\f16\fs20 Maslow\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \par 8. He migrated to the colonies after his father-in-law disinherited his wife and he was caught trying to defraud his neighbor of his inheritance.  He acquired two estates, and less than a year after he arrived, he was appointed to the council of the governor, his cousin by marriage. Although his camapign disintegrated after his death from dysentary, he had achieved military success after responding to an attack by Susquehannock Indians, leading him to be declared a traitor by Governor Berhkley. FTP, who was this western Virginia leader of a rebellion which eventually burned Jamestown?\par \tab Answer: Nathaniel \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bacon\plain\b\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20  \par 9. Studies of metabolic similarities and ribosomal RNA sequences suggest that these organisms form a good, monophyletic taxon. Motile species of them utilize the same gliding locomotion as other gram-negative gliding bacteria, and while they are unicellular, they sometimes form colonies of filaments, sheets, or hollow balls joined by a sheath of mucilage. Some possess the red pigment phycoerythrin, while all of them possess phycocyanin, which led them to be misclassified. FTP, what are these prokaryotes found in all aquatic habitats originally misidentified as blue-green algae?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 cyanobacteria\plain\f16\fs20  (accept early answer of blue-green algae)\par \par 10. In his earliest works he argued for as disassociation between psychology and philosophy in order to fully understand man. More specific doctrinal criticisms grew out of his studies with Heinrich Rickert and are expressed in such works as _Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics _ and _What is Called Thinking? _.  His most controversial comments were made with his Freiburg acceptance speech, entitled \'93The German University\'92s Self-Affirmation\'94 which many saw as an affirmation of Nazism. The developer of "dasein", FTP identify this philosopher who argued that man was thrown into existence and is always struggling for an authentic existence in his 1927 masterpiece _Being and Time _.\par \tab Answer: Martin \plain\b\f16\fs20 Heidegger\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \plain\f16\fs20 11. Preceded by the taking of Norham by the invaders, this battle may have been decided by a commander\'92s dalliance with Lady Ford, who was likely a spy. One side crossed Twisel Bridge and took a stretch of earth called Brankstone. Although the Scots had one more division than the British, the British took control of this battle after Lord Dacre held off the forces of Lord Home, leading to the loss of 10,000 Scots. FTP, what was this major 1513 battle that saw the death of King James IV?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Flodden Field\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 12. One of his teachers in college once told him of the importance of kissing in American culture, prompting him to practice on an oak tree. He had reluctantly enrolled in college because his goal of becoming a forest ranger required that he learn Latin, but after switching to French literature he wrote a national award-winning story about a boy's friendship with an African-American POW entitled "The Catch." Later works like \'93A Personal Matter\'94 often deal with the birth of his brain-damaged son.  FTP, name this 1994 Japanese Nobel Laureate, author of \'93The Silent Cry\'94. \par \tab Answer: Kenzaburo \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Oe\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 13. They were not believed to exist until Shiv Kumar claimed to see one in 1963. Extremely faint compared to other cosmic objects, the first indisputable evidence of their existence was not found until 1995, at which point several were found thanks to the evolution of the lithium test.  G1 229B was, for 10 points, the first clear indication of the existence of what stellar object, essentially considered to be a failed star?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 brown dwarf\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \plain\f16\fs20 14. This mythical name identifies a man from Hellas who was blinded and cursed by his father Amyntor after they quarreled. Eventually healed by Chiron, he became friends with Peleus and was soon responsible for raising Achilles. This name also identifies a creature that, according to Ovid, lives on frankincense and odoriferous gums and makes its way to Heliopolis with the charred remains of its parent to deposit in the temple of the sun. FTP identify this name most commonly associated with a magical bird that lives 500 years before it is destroyed and reborn in flame.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Phoenix\plain\f16\fs20  \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \plain\f16\fs20 15. The wall in the background holds a bell, an hourglass and scales, directly under which sits a dejected looking cherub on top of a wheel. The foreground features a sleeping dog to the left, while tools of intellectual pursuits, including a sphere and a polyhedron,  lie scattered around the folds of the title figure\'92s dress. She is sitting and fingers a divider in her right hand, while her left holds up her chin. FTP identify this 1514 work whose title is carried by a strange creature in the upper left hand corner, an engraving by Albrecht Duhrer.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Melencolia I \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 16. This play features a fire at the beginning of the third act which cruelly reminds the nurse Anfisa and the old boarder Ferapont of class distinctions. Act 4 features Solyoni and Tuzenbach killing one another in a duel for the hand of Irina, while Natasha is seduced by Protopopov. These events are foreshadowed by Olga\'92s initial distrust and Chebutykin\'92s melancholy attitude, and conclude with Masha reechoing her unrequited love for Vershinin. FTP identify this 1901 work focusing on the titular siblings of Andrei Prozorov, a work by Anton Chekov.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Three Sisters\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 17. In 1920, the Supreme Court applied the \'93rule of reason\'94 interpretation of this act. It was first interpreted in 1895 in \plain\i\f16\fs20 U.S. v. E.C. Knight Company\plain\f16\fs20 , in which the Court declared that manufacturing was a local industry and did not fall into the realm of interstate commerce. It had little impact during its first evelen years, but was made into an effective weapon against monopolies by Theodore Roosevelt. FTP, name this first major antitrust legislation.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Sherman Anti-Trust \plain\f16\fs20 Act\par \par 18. The last two of its 20,000 defenders under General Kuribayashi Tadamichi finally surrendered in 1949. Unclaimed by any nation until 1891, it was administered as part of Tokyo due to its strategic importance during World War II, and then by the United States until 1968.  Located between Saipan and Japan, it was valuable as a base for fighter escorts and a haven for crippled bombers. With a name meaning \'93sulfur island\'94,  FTP, identify this largest of the Volcano Islands, home to Mt. Suribachi and the scene of bloody fighting in February and March 1945.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Iwo Jima\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 19. A derivative of phthalic anhydride, this compound was freqently used in laxatives until it was discovered that it might be carcinogenic.  It is insoluble in water but soluble in most basic solutions or acetone, and for its primary use is most frequently found in a 1% alcohol solution.  For 10 points, identify this crystalline organic compound with formula C20 H14 O4, an indicator which turns red above a pH of 9.6.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 phenolphthalein\plain\f16\fs20   \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 20. He founded the literary review \'93Barandal\'94 at the age of 17, and his early poems were later collected in \'93Configurations\'94. Other collections include \'93Airborn\'94 and \'93Blanco\'94, while specific poems like \'93Freedom Under Parole\'94 and \'93Eagle or Sun\'94 express the type of sympathy for the Indians in his homeland instilled by his father, who served as a secretary to Zapata. He is most famous for non-fiction such as \'93The Pears of the Elm\'94 and an essay written in 1950 that analyzes what it means to be Mexican. FTP identify this poet and diplomat who wrote \'93Luna Silvestri\'94 and \'93The Labyrinth of Solitude\'94.\par \tab Asnwer: Octavio \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Paz\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 21. Some translations of this book take it as a conversation between a "bride" and a "bridegroom", even though there is no evidence of marriage and no sign of who is speaking. Most scholars hold that it is an allegory concerning the spiritual love of God for Israel rather than a depiction of sensual love. FTP, name this book of the ketuvim sometimes attributed to a wise king of Israel.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Song of Solomon \plain\f16\fs20 (or Song of Songs or Canticle of Canticles)\par \par 22. This drug has antiinflammatory properties useful in treating leprosy and rheumatoid arthritis, and is useful in treating AIDS due to its ability to inhibit the function of the Tumor Necrosis Factor protein, and may even inhibit replication of HIV.  Developed in the 1950s in West Germany, it was not approved for use in the US until 1998.  It is now known to exist as two enantiomers, one of which is believed responsible for its sedative effects, the other for its notorious side effects.  FTP identify this drug, taken off the market in 1962 because it caused thousands of birth defects.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 thalidomide\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 23. It ends with a separate section portraying seven black men and five white men working in a chain gang by the Forks Falls highway.  Denizens of the nameless Georgia town include the Rainey twins, malaria victim Merlie Ryan, and the Macy brothers, which consist of the amiable Henry and the violent Marvin.  The latter defeats the protagonist Miss Amelia in a wrestling match at the title locale after the malevolent hunchback Lymon intervenes.  FTP, name this dark tale about the parasitic nature of love, a 1951 novella by Carson McCullers.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 Ballad of the Sad Cafe\par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 24. His theoretical work on inequality provided an explanation for why there are fewer women than men in some economically disadvantaged countries. This study is included in the work _Collective Choice and Social Welfare _ in which he argues that social reform must precede economic growth. His other important work was inspired by his own experience in Bengal during the 1940s and is called _Poverty and Famines: An Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation _. FTP identify this noted economist whose work to help the poor earned him the Nobel Prize in 1998.\par \plain\f16\fs20 Answer: Amartya \plain\b\f16\fs20 Sen\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \page \plain\b\f16\fs20\cf1 ACF FALL TOURNAMENTS\par PACKET BY MICHIGAN A/CORNELL\par BONUSES\par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 1. Identify the following about a Shakespearean play FTPE:\par 1.Its primary source seems to be Barnabe Riche\'eds _History of Apolonius and Silla _. Set primarily in Illyria, it begins with Orsino's famous conflation of music and love.\par \tab Answer: _Twelfth Night _ or What You Will\par 2.At the center of _Twelfth Night _ is this this sister of Sebastian who disguises herself as the page Cesario.\par \tab Answer: _Viola_\par 3.This man, Olivia's guardian and kinsman, joins Sir Andrew Augecheek and Maria in a joke involving the comeuppance of Malvolio.\par \tab Answer: Sir _Toby Belch _\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. Answer these related Norse mythology questions FTP each.\par 1. This god has many attributes similar to Tyr, and was also responsible for creating the warriors, the serfs, and the peasants.  The god with the keenest of senses, he prevents the giants from forcing their way into Asgard.\par \tab Answer: _Heimdall_\par 2. This is the rainbow-bridge which Heimdall guards, the only link from Midgard to Asgard.\par \tab Answer: _Bifrost_\par 3. Hidden beneath the third root of Yggdrasil, this horn played softly to announce the arrival of the gods.  At Ragnarok, its call will be heard all over the earth, calling the gods and warriors to battle.\par \tab Answer: _Gjall_erhorn\par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 3. Identify the following from American History FTSNOP:\par 1. (10 points) Though it only survived for 7 years, this government department made many inroads in education, building over 1000 black schools. The president's lack of support eventually spelled doom for this organization founded by Congress in 1865.\par \tab Answer: _Freedmen's Bureau _ or _U.S. Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands _\par 2. (5 points) Part of the problem with keeping the Freedmen's Bureau afloat resulted from the lack of support that this president gave to the enterprise. In 1866 he vetoed its renewal.\par \tab Answer: Andrew _Johnson _\par 3.This Union officer served as the head of the Freedmen\'eds Bureau and later served as the third president of an eponymous University in Washington D.C.\par \tab Answer: Oliver Otis _Howard _\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 4. Identify the following about an architect FTPE:\par 1.The recipient of the Pritzker prize in 1983, he studied at MIT and is famous for his steel and glass designs such as his Pyramid at the Louvre and Hancock Place in Boston.\par \tab Answer: Ieoh Ming _Pei _\par 2.Pei's most recent work, its clean white exterior is set off by the funky shapes he employs, though it has helped draw more people to beautiful Cleveland, Ohio.\par \tab Answer: _Rock and Roll Hall of Fame _\par 2.Connected by an underground passage to older collections housed elsewhere, it features a huge Calder Mobile in the atrium and follows the triangular shape of its 4\plain\f16\fs20\up6\super th\plain\f16\fs20  avenue location in Washington D.C.\par \tab Answer: _East Wing of The National Gallery _ of Art\par \par 5. Identify these comets from descriptions for 10 points each.\par a. Having already been torn into pieces as a result of a close approach to Jupiter in July 1992, it collided with Jupiter from July 16-22, 1994.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Shoemaker-Levy 9\plain\f16\fs20 \par b. One of the brightest comets of the 20\plain\f16\fs20\up6\super th\plain\f16\fs20  century, it was discovered in the spring of 1996 when it made a close pass by the sun.  Its tail, over 300 million miles in length, was the longest ever recorded.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Hyakutake\plain\f16\fs20 \par c. Discovered in February of 1975, its motion was ambiguous and it was almost lost.  It reappeared in 1981 and had an exceptional apparition in 1987 but did not appear as expected in 1994.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Kohoutek\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 6. Identify these works by Ralph Waldo Emerson FTPE:\par 1.First delivered on August 31 1837 this address to Harvard's Phi Beta Kappa exhorted its listeners to strive for national academic and artistic independence.\par \tab Answer: _The American Scholar _\par 2. Published anonymously in 1836, it discusses the titular entity as a commodified and aesthetic force, and also contains Emerson's metaphor of the transparent eyeball.\par \tab Answer: _Nature _\par 2.This famous essay was published in 1841 and preached individualism through memorable quotes such as: "Nothing is sacred but the integrity of the mind".\par \tab Answer: _Self-Reliance _\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 7. Identify the following about a geographical feature 5-10-15:\par 1.(5 points) From the Arabic for "desert", it \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 is bordered in the west by the Atlantic Ocean, in the north by the Atlas Mountains and Mediterranean Sea, in the east by the Red Sea, and in the south by a zone of immobile sand dunes. \par \tab Answer: _Sahara _\par \plain\f16\fs20 2.\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  (10 points) Covering about 7,000 square miles and containing salt lakes and marshes, this basin in northwestern Egypt is the lowest point in the Sahara.\par \tab Answer: _Qattara Depression _\par 3. (15 points) Part of the Tibesti Mountains in Northern Chad, this extinct volcano features the highest summit in the Sahara desert.\par \tab Asnwer: Mount _Koussi _\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 8. Identify the following about the history of an African People FTPE:\par 1.Until their consolidation, under a famous leader at the beginning of the 19\plain\f16\fs20\up6\super\cf1 th\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  century, they were one of many Nguni speaking peoples in the Natal province of what is now South Africa. In the late 19th century Cetewayo led them in an 1879 war with the British.\par \tab Answer: the _Zulu _\par 2. Though he would go insane after the death of his mother Nandi, killing 7000 of his own people, this man built on the successes of his predecessor Dingiswayo and established the Zulu kingdom into a regional power.\par \tab Answer: _Shaka _ or Chaka or Tsaka\par 3. Shaka was eventually killed and succeeded by this half-brother who would later fight the 1838 battle of Blood River with Andries Pretorius for control of Natal.\par \tab Answer: _Dingane _ or Dingaan\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 9. Identify these human endocrine hormones from descriptions for 10 points each.\par a. Stimulated by thyrotropin-releasing hormone, it is produced by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland.  It helps prepare the breasts for milk production in pregnancy and promotes the synthesis of milk after birth.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul prolactin\plain\f16\fs20 \par b. A mixture of two peptides, this hypothalamic hormone acts on the anterior lobe of the pituitary and inhibits the release of growth hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone.  It is also secreted by the delta cells of the pancreas.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul somatostatin\plain\f16\fs20 \par c. Produced in the adrenal cortex, this mineralocorticoid promotes the reabsorption of sodium ions into the blood to help maintain normal blood pressure.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul aldosterone\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 10. Answer the following about a European Author FTPE:\par 1.Influences including Homer and his mentor Henri Bergson can be seen in such works as _Toda Raba _ and _Report to Greco _.\par \tab Answer: Nikos _Kazantzakis _\par 2. Kazantzakis may be most famous for this 1946 novel about a spirited man and poor man's philosopher later portrayed memorably on film by Anthony Quinn.\par \tab Answer: _Zorba the Greek _\par 3. This controversial 1955 work humanized the Christian savior and was also made into a film, this time starring William Defoe.\par \tab Answer: _The Last Temptation of Christ _\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 11. Answer the following about a thinker FTPE:\par 1.His association with the Earl of Shaftesbury and the ascension of Charles II kept this author of _Thoughts Concerning Education _ and _The Reasonableness of Christianity _ exilde in Holland for 5 years.\par \tab Answer: John _Locke _\par 2. This Locke work \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 argues that ideas come from two "fountains" of experience: sensation, through which the senses convey perceptions to the mind, and reflection, whereby the mind works with perceptions, forming ideas. It also discussed the "tabula rasa".\par \plain\f16\fs20 \tab Answer: An _Essay Concerning Human Understanding _\par 3.\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  The first of these works is a refutation of Filmer's \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 Patriarcha\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 , a defense of the divine right of kings; the second refutes the absolutist theory and argues for the law of nature. Together they stand as Locke's supreme expression of political thought.\par \plain\f16\fs20 \tab Answer: _Two Treatises of Government _\par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 12. Identify the following about some Roman Emperors FTPE:\par 1. This first-born son of Vespasian captured Jerusalem in AD 70 and ascended to the throne after his father's death. His name lives on in the famed triumphal Arch  erected in Rome eleven years after his victory.\par \tab Answer: _Titus _\par 2. After Titus died in 81, this younger brother became Caesar. He is well known for the reign of terror that surrounded his years on the throne as well as for the building of the Forum Nervae and his house on the Alban mount.\par \tab Answer: _Domitian _\par 3. The death of Domition marked the end of this dynasty of emperors, the second to rule Rome.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 Flavian\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20 13. FTPE, name these polyatomic ions from formulas.\par 1. (10 points) CN minus 1\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 cyanide\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) C2 H3 O2 minus 1\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 acetate\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \sl240 3. (10 points) HCO3 minus 1\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 hydrogen carbonate\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 bicarbonate\plain\f16\fs20  (DO NOT ACCEPT OR PROMPT ON carbonate)\par \pard \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 14. Identify the following about a certain novel FTPE:\par 1.Praised by Coleridge as having one of the three most perfect plots in the history of literature, this 1749 work opens with Squire Allworthy's discovery of the title character in his bed.\par \tab Answer: _Tom Jones _ a Foundling\par 2. This is the author of "Tom Jones".\par \tab Answer: Henry \plain\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 Fielding\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 2. Though he first loves Molly Seagrim, who betrays him with his tutor Square, Tom Jones's attentions soon turn to this noble woman whom he eventually marries despite the machinations of the jerk Blifil.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 Sophia Western \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 (accept either answer)\par \par 15. Identify the following terms from Zen Buddhism for ten points each.\par 1.This Japanese word refers to the unexplainable state of enlightenment akin to what the Buddha had achieved while under the Bo tree.\par \tab Answer: _satori _\par 2.This is the practice of meditation that leads to satori, as advocated by the Soto school.\par \tab Answer: _zazen _\par 3.The older Rinzai school advocates these paradoxical statements as way of shocking the mind and eventual leading it to satori through subsequent pondering.\par \tab Answer: _koan _\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 16. Identify these theorems from multivariable calculus for 10 points each.\par a. Sometimes considered the analog of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus for double integrals, it gives the relationship between a line integral around a simple closed curve C and a double integral over the plane region D bounded by C.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Green's \plain\f16\fs20 Theorem\par b. Regarded as a higher-dimensional version of Green\'eds Theorem, it relates a surface integral over a surface S to a line integral around the boundary curve of S, a space curve.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Stoke's \plain\f16\fs20 Theorem\par c. Also called the Gauss's Theorem or Ostrogradsky's Theorem, it relates the integral of the div of a vector field F over a simple solid region E to the integral of F over E's boundary surface S, provided S has positive orientation.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul divergence \plain\f16\fs20 theorem\par \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 17. Identify the following about Booker Prize-winning works for ten points each.\par 1.This 1981 work of magical realism concerning Saleem Sinai has the distinct honor of being voted "the Booker of Bookers," that is, the best title to have ever won the prize since its first awarding in 1969. It was written by Salmon Rushdie.\par \tab Answer: _Midnight's Children _\par 2.Garnering the award in 1985, the novel "The Bone People" by this New Zealander chronicles the relationship between a solitary artist, a young mute boy she finds washed upon the beach, and the boy's father, a Maori factory worker.\par \tab Answer: Keri \plain\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 Hulme\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3.This portrait of the traditional English butler and his moral dilemmas set during World War II won its Nagasaki-born author the Booker in 1989.\par \tab Answer: _The Remains of the Day _\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 18. Other than the Magnificat, it is perhaps the only religious text to present a clearly feminine perspective of God in Christianity.  It has served as the basis of identically titled works for hundreds of different composers.  For 10 points each,\par a. What is this shared musical work, devoted to Mary?\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Stabat Mater\plain\f16\fs20 \par b. Perhaps the longest of the Stabat Maters is by this composer, divided into ten parts and clocking in at over 78 minutes.  Name this composer more famous for his Slavonic Dances and the New World Symphony.\par \tab Answer: Antonin \plain\f16\fs20\ul Dvorak\plain\f16\fs20 \par c. The next longest on the list is this man's 13-part Stabat Mater, written in 1767. He is better known for the Farewell and Surprise Symphonies.\par \tab Answer: Franz Josef \plain\f16\fs20\ul Haydn\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 19. FTPE, answer the following questions about early British expansion in India.\par 1) He served as the British administrator of Bengal from 1755-60 and again from 1763-67, and brought that territory under British control.  \par \pard \li720 A) Robert \plain\f16\fs20\ul Clive\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard 2) Clive gained control of Bengal by defeating the Nawab Siraj-ud-Dawlah in this 1756 battle.\par \pard \li720 A) \plain\f16\fs20\ul Plassey\par \pard \plain\f16\fs20 3) The Nawab of Bengal was an appointee of this dynasty begun by Babur, which ruled most of India until it was gradually supplanted by the British\par \pard \li720 A) \plain\f16\fs20\ul Mughal\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Mogul\par \pard \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \plain\f16\fs20 20. Identify these Greek letters from their uses in the field of statistics, for the stated number of points.\par 1) FFPE, these two letters represent the mean and standard deviation of a population.\par \tab A) \plain\f16\fs20\ul mu, sigma\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2) FTP, this letter represents the probability of making a Type I error when testing a hypothesis.\par \tab A) \plain\f16\fs20\ul alpha\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3) FTP, in analysis of variance, this letter represents contrasts among population means.\par \tab A) \plain\f16\fs20\ul psi\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 21. Four physical quantities are called thermodynamic potentials.  One of them is internal energy.  Identify these others for 10 points each.\par a. Add the quantity pressure times volume to the internal energy to produce this measurable state variable.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul enthalpy\plain\f16\fs20 \par b. From the enthalpy, subtract the quantity absolute temperature times entropy to get this value, which indicates in which direction a chemical reaction will tend to proceed.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Gibbs free energy\plain\f16\fs20 \par c. Subtract the quantity pressure times volume from the Gibbs free energy to yield this value, the amount of energy that must be put in to create a system once the spontaneous energy transfer to the system from the environment is accounted for.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Helmholtz free energy\plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par \plain\f16\fs20 22. The 2001 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded jointly to the United Nations as a whole and its Secretary General Kofi Annan.  For the stated number of points, answer these questions about earlier awards given to the UN.\par 1) 5 points: The only other Secretary General to win the Nobel Prize was this man, who received the award posthumously in 1961.\par \pard \fi720 A) Dag \plain\f16\fs20\ul Hammarskjold\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard 2) 15 points: This UN agency has received the Prize twice, in 1954 and 1981.\par \pard \fi720 A) Office of the UN \plain\f16\fs20\ul High Commissioner for Refugees\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul UNHCR\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard 3) 10 points: Name \plain\f16\fs20\ul either\plain\f16\fs20  the FAO director who was awarded the Prize in 1949, or the UN mediator in Palestine who was awarded the prize in 1950.\par \tab A) John \plain\f16\fs20\ul Boyd Orr\plain\f16\fs20  , Ralph J. \plain\f16\fs20\ul Bunche\plain\f16 \par }
