{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \sl240 \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY MICHIGAN\plain\f16\fs20  \plain\b\f16\fs20 (Paul Litvak, Ryan McClarren, Leo Wolpert, and Benjamin Heller)\par \par TOSSUPS\par \pard \par \plain\f16\fs20 1. He collaborated with Roy DeCarava on a pictorial essay which was published posthumously as \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Sweet Flypaper of Life\plain\f16\fs20 . He wrote a semi-autobiographical novel about the picaresque adventures of Sandy Rodgers entitled \plain\i\f16\fs20 Not Without Laughter\plain\f16\fs20 , while his dramas include \plain\i\f16\fs20 Simply Heavenly \plain\f16\fs20 and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Tambourines to Glory\plain\f16\fs20 . He also wrote a series of newspaper sketches about the urban folk hero Jesse B. Simple, but he is better known for his poetry, collected in works like \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Pather and the Lash\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Fine Clothes for the Jew\plain\f16\fs20 . FTP, identify this Harlem Renaissance author of \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Weary Blues \plain\f16\fs20 and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Montage of a Dream Deferred\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Langston \plain\f16\fs20\ul Hughes\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. To many critics his most important writing was the essay \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Dividing Line Between Federal and Local Authority\plain\f16\fs20 .  His rejection of the demands of William Yancey led to a split in his party.   The author of the sections of the Compromise of 1850 relating to the governments of the Kansas and New Mexico territories, he created the famous \'93Freeport Doctrine\'94 annunciating his theory of popular sovereignty during his run for senator in 1858.  For 10 points, name this \'93Little Giant,\'94 who authored the Kansas-Nebraska Act and defeated Abraham Lincoln after a series of famous debates.\par \tab Answer:\tab Stephen \plain\f16\fs20\ul Douglas\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 3. One myth tells of this god's pursuit of the numph Lotis, who was changed into a lotus tree to escape him. The brother of Hymen, he could supposedly be kept away by the braying of a donkey. Imported from Lampascus, where Pausanias reported he was supreme among all gods, he became popular in the Roman Empire, where he served as a god of sailors, fishermen, and gardens, and red satyr-like statues of him where placed in the fields to ensure fruitfulness. FTP, who was this fertility god known for his enormous phallus? (85 perfectly written poems in honor)\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Priapus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 4. During this geologic period the first flying reptiles, the pterosaurs, appears, as did Archaeopteryx, the first primitive bird. Ammonites are used as index fossils for this period in which reptiles dominated the vertebrates, and which featured ferns, ginkgos, conifers, brachiopods, bivalves, and echinoids. Named in 1829 by A. Brongniart for a mountain range on the French-Swiss border, it extended from 190 to 139 million years ago. FTP, what is this period of the Mesozoic era between the Triassic and Cretaceous Periods?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Jurassic\plain\f16\fs20  Period\par \par 5. This play begins with a nurse recounting and lamenting the events that have led to the events described. The title character gains sanctuary in Athens in exchange for a fertility drug for the king Aegeus, then escapes in a chariot sent by her grandfather, the Sun-God, following the death of Creon,  who is poisoned via the clothes of his daughter Glauce. FTP, identify this play about the vengeful machinations of the former wife of Jason, a tragedy of Euripides.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Medea\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 6. His songs include words by Housman, Hopkins, Yeats, and Stephens, and he set to music James Joyce\'92s \plain\i\f16\fs20 Chamber Music\plain\f16\fs20 .  His operas include \plain\i\f16\fs20 A Hand of Bridge\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Antony and Cleopatra\plain\f16\fs20  and he composed the \plain\i\f16\fs20 Capricorn Concerto\plain\f16\fs20  for flute, oboe, trumpet, and strings.  Known for the vocal piece \plain\i\f16\fs20 Dover Beach\plain\f16\fs20 , his best known opera is \plain\i\f16\fs20 Vanessa\plain\f16\fs20 .  For 10 points, name this American composer best-known for \plain\i\f16\fs20 Adagio for Strings\plain\f16\fs20 .\plain\f16 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \tab Answer:\tab Samuel \plain\f16\fs20\ul Barber\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 7. Geoffrey of Villehardouin wrote the principle account of this event and Fulk of Neuilly helped drum up support for it.  Despite papal objections, it attacked and captured the Christian city of Zara and spent the winter there.  After the death of Thibaut of Champagne, the leadership of the Crusade passed to Boniface of Montferrat.  The future Alexius IV appealed to European kings on behalf of his father Isaac Angelus, leading Doge Dandolo to divert the crusade to Constantinople.  For 10 points, name this 1202-04 crusade in which Venice sacked Constantinople.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul 4th Crusade\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 8. Chapter three, entitled, \'93Of the Consequence or Train of the Imaginations\'94 asserts that the continuance of motion is responsible for human thinking. The third part claims that the universe is a plenum containing no angels or apparitions, thus undermining orthodox Christianity, and is entitled \'93Of A Christian Commonwealth.\'94 Finally, the fourth part, \'93Of the Kingdom of Darkness\'94, builds up the authors materialist program. Famous for its description of man in a state of nature, FTP, identify this work describing the "Matter, Form and Power of a Commonwealth", written by Thomas Hobbes.   \par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Leviathan\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 9. In samples, the presence of gram negative cocci pairs displaying a typical kidney bean shape is usually a diagnostic of this disease.  Occasionally, it can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease or even death if the infection spreads to the lungs, heart, or brain.  A member of the genus Neisseria, it is usually treated with Cetriaxone, Cefixime, Ciprofloaxin, or Ofloxacin, but not Penicillin, as it has developed resistance to that drug.  Characterized by appearance of pus and a burning feeling during urination, this is, FTP, what venereal disease also known as \'93the clap?\'94\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Gonorrhea\plain\f16\fs20  (prompt on \'93the clap\'94 before mentioned)\par \par 10. The seventh stanza alludes to the story of Ruth, saying that \'93when sick for home, she stood in tears amid the alien corn.\'94 In the sixth stanza the poet says that he has often been \'93half in love\'94 with the idea of Death, and called Death soft names in many rhymes. In the second stanza the poet finds himself wishing for the oblivion of \'93a draught of vintage\'94 though later on he repudiates his earlier Bacchanalian tendencies in favor of the pursuit of poetry. In the end, the word \'93forlorn\'94 tolls like a bell to restore him from his speculations concerning the titular animal. FTP, identify this poem about a bird, written by John Keats.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Ode to a Nightengale\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 11. His reign was troubled by a tribal insurrection under the Chaldean Merodach-Baladan which led him to appoint Bel-ibni as sub-king to deal with the problems.  He was constantly threated by the Elamites, who he defeated at Halule.  He attacked Jerusalem, but did not sack the city and Isaiah described him as God\'92s instrument, but didn\'92t not condemn his actions.  His wife Naqai fathered his heir Esarhaddon, and he was known for his splendid palace: Shanina-la-ishu or \'93Nonesuch.\'94  FTP, name this son of Sargon II who made Nineveh his capital and the destruction of whose armies is the subject of a Byron poem?\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Sennacherib\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 12. It is a polyamide in which all the amide groups attach to the phenyl rings opposite to each other at carbons 1 and 4, forcing it to maintain a \'93trans\'94 formation, producing long, stackable fibers.  Its high tensile strength, flame resistance, high chemical resistance, and high cut resistance made its inventors, Herbert Blades and Stephanie Kwolek of DuPont, unsure of what it could be used for, as it could not easily be melted down or put in solution. FTP, name this strong synthetic fiber used in sails, kayaks, firefighter gloves, run-flat tires, and bullet-proof vests.\par \pard\keepn \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Kevlar\par \pard \plain\f16\fs20 \par 13. Shortly before his death this artist began \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Cross of the World\plain\f16\fs20 , a series of paintings on a religious theme.  One of his most famous works was based on the Count de Volney's \plain\i\f16\fs20 Ruines\plain\f16\fs20  and was painted while he was living with Henry Greenough in Florence. In \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Voyage of Life \plain\f16\fs20 he depicts the progression of a young man from birth to old age, while the stages of a society is seen in "The Course of Empire".  For 10 points, name this painter of the Hudson River School best remembered for \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Ox-Bow\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Thomas \plain\f16\fs20\ul Cole\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. He became active in Republican politics under Harold Stassen, serving as floor manager at the 1948 and 1952 Republican conventions.  Chairman of the commission planning the bicentennial celebration of the U.S. constitution, he was appointed assistant Attorney General in 1953, and two years later Eisenhower appointed him to the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.  Contrary to expectations, this conservative upheld the Miranda decision, and it was his court that presided over Roe v. Wade.  For 10 points, name this Chief Justice of the Supreme Court who in 1969 succeeded Earl Warren.\par \tab Answer:\tab Warren \plain\f16\fs20\ul Burger\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 15. The theory behind this basic concept has been augmented in the 20th century by the pioneering work in indifference analysis of Edgeworth, and its first formulation can be attributed to William Stanley Jevons. It grew out of speculations about the origins of price and the paradox of value, seen in the lesser of cost of bread than diamonds, which implied the need to consider scarcity in determinations of price. FTP, identify this basic economics concept which is defined as the additional benefit that the consumer acquires from the purchase of an additional unit of a commodity.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul marginal utility\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. The title character is wooed via trips to the theater to see plays in which a girl is skirted away from a palatial home and a cruel guardian by a hero with \'93beautiful sentiments.\'94 The phrase \'93gone to the devil\'94 is repeated several times as the heroine is disowned by her drunkard mother, and despite the promise of a happy, petit-bourgeois life, everything is ruined by the schemes of Nellie, an audacious woman who steals Pete the bartender away from the title character. FTP, identify this sad tale of a doomed girl-come-prostitute in the Bowery district, written by Stephen Crane.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Maggie\plain\f16\fs20 :\tab A Girl of the Streets\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 17. He regularly gave lectures on popular astronomy to working class audiences, leading to the publication of his \plain\i\f16\fs20 A Philosophical Treatise of Popular Astronomy\plain\f16\fs20 , and at his death he left a book on the philosophy of mathematics entitled \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Subjective Synthesis\plain\f16\fs20 . He argued that human kind progressed through a theological stage, a metaphysical stage, and finally a scientific stage, in his appropriately-named \'93law of three stages," while his romance with the tubercular Clotilde de Vaux influenced his view of the woman\'92s place in an ideal science-based society. FTP, identify this French founder of positivism, considered to be the first sociologist.\par \tab Answer:\tab Auguste \plain\f16\fs20\ul Comte\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 18. Nearly all of the energy leakage in a nuclear fusion reactor is due to this phenomenon, and it is also observed when beta decay products propagate through uranium in a fission reactor. \plain\f16\fs20\cf1 When coherently applied to crystals with incident energetic electron beams, photon beams in the range of 200 giga-electron volts have been observed.  FTP, name this phenomenon in which x-rays are produced when charged particles are accelerated by the strong electric fields of atomic nuclei, whose name comes from the German for \'93braking radiation.\'94\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 bremsstrahlung \plain\f16\fs20\ul  \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 19. It was founded as a result of mining activities overseen by Gonzalo Pizarro, who was interested in exploring the highland east region of the Andean Cordillera.  Located on the Rio Cachimayo, this city\'92s main attractions are el Museo de la Recoleta, el Palacio de la Glorieta, la Casa de la Libertad, and la Universidad Mayor de San Francisco Xavier.  Founded by Pedro de Anz\'fares, it was originally named La Plata, and has also been called Charcas and Ciudad Blanca until its name was permanently changed on August 11, 1825 to honor a Venezuelan freedom fighter.  For 10 points, name this legal capital of Bolivia.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Sucre\plain\f16\fs20  (accept the 3 names before mentioned)\par \par 20. He wrote a series of parodies of his favorite authors published in Le Figaro entitled \'93The Lemon Affair,\'94 while his theories on the universal function of literature can be seen in \'93Contre Saint-Beuve\'94. Author of the collection of sketches \plain\i\f16\fs20 Pleasures and Days\plain\f16\fs20 , his work on the novel \plain\i\f16\fs20 Jean Santeuil \plain\f16\fs20 contained the seeds of his most famous work, whose sections include "The Sweet Cheat Gone" and "Swann's Way". FTP, identify this French author of \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Remembrance of Things Past\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Marcel \plain\f16\fs20\ul Proust\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 21. One of the first cultivators of the Cuban variety was Jos\'e9 Pepe S\'e1nchez, who in 1885 produced one entitled \plain\i\f16\fs20 Tristezas.\plain\f16\fs20   Distinctive features are the \'93paseo,\'94 \'93bien parado,\'94 and various battements, and it is characterized by a triplet on the second half of the first beat. Typically in a three-four time signature, FTP, name this Spanish and Latin-American dance most famously produced by Ravel.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Bolero\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 22. He told his most famous student not to study too much math, lest it interfere with her child birthing abilities.  In 1838, he presented one of the first clear explanations of mathematical induction, a term which he coined, but his real contributions lie in the field of symbolic logic, where he invented notations that help prove prepositional equivalences.  FTP, name this teacher of Ada Lovelace, one of whose two namesake laws states that the negation of the conjunction of two propositions is logically equivalent to the disjunction of their negations.\par \tab Answer:\tab August \plain\f16\fs20\ul De Morgan\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 23. Formulations explaining the behaviour of objects moving at relativistic speeds reduce to the classical Newtonian  relations for objects moving at low speeds.  Likewise, a description of the structure of quantum sized objects should explain the behaviour of macroscopic objects as well.  The term for this belief was coined when, while trying to describe the orbits of electrons about a nucleus, Niels Bohr postulated that any new physical law should match up with classical laws under the appropriate circumstances. FTP identify this term.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Correspondence\plain\f16\fs20  principle\par \par \pard \sl240 \plain\b\f16\fs20 \page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY MICHIGAN\par \par \pard BONUSES\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 1. Name the following about a poet, 5-10-15:\par 1. (5 points) This German is best-known for his epic "Faust".\par \tab Answer: Johann Wolfgang von \plain\b\f16\fs20 Goethe\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) In this classic bildungsroman, the title character dreams to be a playwright, but is ultimately coaxed into being a surgeon by the mysterious Tower Society.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\b\f16\fs20 Wilhelm Meister\'92s Apprenticeship \plain\f16\fs20 (also accept Wilhelm Meisters Lehresjahre)\par 3. (15 points) This play recounts the inability of the 16th century Italian poet of Jerusalem Delivered to reconcile his insanity with the external world.\par \tab Answer:\tab Torquato \plain\b\f16\fs20 Tasso\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. Among the 103 people to have held this poste are Dr George Carey, Cuthbert, Lanfranc, Anselm, Thomas Cranmer, and William Laud.  For 10 points each: \par 1. Name this position, the primate of all England.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Archbishop of Canterbury\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. This man was the first Archbishop of Canterbury who shares his name with a famous bishop of Hippo.\par \tab Answer:\tab Saint \plain\f16\fs20\ul Augustine\plain\f16\fs20  of Canterbury\par 3. This is the London house of the Archbishop.  It lends its name to the periodical gatherings of the bishops of the Anglican Communion.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Lambeth\plain\f16\fs20  Palace or Conference\par \par 3. Name these scientific paradoxes, for 10 points each.\par (10) If the Universe were infinite, uniform, and unchanging then the entire sky at night would be as bright as the sun, because eventually, a star would enter your line of sight.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Olber\plain\f16\fs20 \'92s Paradox\par (10) Named after an Italian physicist, this paradox questions that if the Galaxy is filled with intelligent and technological civilizations, why haven't they come to us yet?\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Fermi\plain\f16\fs20 \'92s Paradox\par (10) The solution to this paradox was confirmed when a cesium atomic clock carried on the space shuttle was compared to one left on earth.  This paradox asks the question, whose aging is slowed by time dilation, someone traveling in at relativistic speeds, or someone staying on earth.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Twin\plain\f16\fs20  Paradox\par \par 4. Name the following, for 10 points each:\par 1. This league of six tribes of Native Americans was founded by the Seneca, Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida, and Mohawk nations.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Iroquois\plain\f16\fs20  Confederacy\par 2. This sixth Iroquois tribe joined the confederation in the mid-1700\'92s.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Tuscaroras\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. The Onondagas were last to join the original group due to the actions of this evil shaman.  Once he was cured he was made first among the confederacy\'92s fifty equal chiefs.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Thadodaho\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 5. Name these 20th century composers from works for 10 points each:\par 1. \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Making of the Representative for Planet 8\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 Hydrogen Jukebox\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Einstein on the Beach\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Philip \plain\f16\fs20\ul Glass\par \plain\f16\fs20 2. \plain\i\f16\fs20 Litany for the Whale\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Wonderful Widow of 18 Springs\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 Cheap Imitation\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 4\'9233\'94 \plain\f16\fs20 and several \plain\i\f16\fs20 Imaginary Landscapes\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab John \plain\f16\fs20\ul Cage\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. \plain\i\f16\fs20 Cuban Overture, Porgy and Bess, An American in Paris\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Answer: George \plain\b\f16\fs20 Gershwin\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 6. Answer some questions about a British poet and critic, for 10 points each:\par 1. His career began with the publication of \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Strayed Reveller\plain\f16\fs20 , and he is known for poems like \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Scholar-Gypsy\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Thrysis\plain\f16\fs20 , an elegy for his friend Arthur Hugh Clough.\par \tab Answer:\tab Matthew \plain\f16\fs20\ul Arnold\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. This is Matthew Arnold\'92s most famous poem, expressing pessimism about the future of the modern world, describing the titular location as \'93where ignorant armies clash by night.\'94\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Dover Beach\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. This critical work sought to shake the members of the Victorian middle class, whom he dubbed Philistines, and contrasted Hebraism and Hellenism as two opposing forces of art.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Culture and Anarchy\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 7. Identify these pioneering American anthropologists, for the stated number of points:\par 1. This teacher of Mead and Benedict is among the founders of culture-centric anthropology. He did famous studies of Native American culture, including Primitive Art and The Mind of Primitve Man.\par \tab Answer:\tab Franz \plain\f16\fs20\ul Boas\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. This student of Franz Boas established the department of anthropology at Yale and did pioneering work on the relationship between language and perception in works like Language, and Language, Culture and Personality.\par \tab Answer:\tab Edward \plain\f16\fs20\ul Sapir\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Another student of Boas, this anthropologist held the first chair in African studies in the United States. In works like The Economic Life of Primitive Peoples and The Myth of the Negro Past, he attacked the notion that Africa must follow Western models of progression.\par \tab Answer:\tab Melville J. \plain\f16\fs20\ul Herskovits\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \sl240 8. FTPE, name the following about diseases.\par 1. (10 points) Discovered by Stanley Prusiner, these aborrent cells on the brain lack nucleic acid, and cause such diseases as Creutzfeldt-Jakob, Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease, fatal familial insomnia, and bovine spongiform encephalopathy.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 prions\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This fatal degenerative disorder of the nervous system is found only among the Fore peoples of Papua New Guinea. Meaning "trembling", it causes joint pain, tremors, dementia, and death within 2 years.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 kuru\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This is a fatal prion-induced neurodegenerative disease of sheep which causes nervousness, loss of weight, and tremors on the head and neck. It is named for this sheep's tendency to rub against objects, wearing away its fleece.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 scrapie\plain\f16\fs20  (or Rida or Tremblante Du Mouton)\par \par \pard 9. The victor in the first full-scale Roman civil war and dictator from 82 to 79, he carried out notable constitutional reforms in an attempt to strengthen the Roman Republic. For 10 points each:\par 1. Name this Roman politician who assumed the name Felix because he believed in his own good luck.  \par \tab Answer:\tab Lucius Cornelius \plain\f16\fs20\ul Sulla\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. Sulla began his career in the army of this seven time consul during the campaign to subdue Jugurtha.\par \tab Answer:\tab Gaius \plain\f16\fs20\ul Marius\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Sulla later commanded the Roman army in the war against Mithridates VI, king of this Asian region.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Pontus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 10. FTPE, name the following members of a cursed house of Greek myth.\par 1. (10 points) This king of Mycene vowed to sacrifice the finest animal in his flock to Artemis, but after discovering a golden lamb reneged on his promise and hid the lamb away.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Atreus\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This wife of Atreus was having an affair with his brother Thyestes, and secretly gave the lamb to Thyestes.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Aerope\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) After using the golden lamb to seize the throne, Zeus engineeres Atreus' return to the throne, after which he served Thyestes his children as food. To gain revenge, Thyestes got it on with his daughter and produced this son who would go on to kill Atreus and later seduce Clytemnestra.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Aegisthus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 11. Identify these members of New Criticism for the stated number of points:\par 1. (5 points) This Fugitive presented an unsympathetic account of John Brown in The Making of a Martyr, but is better known for novels such as Night Rider and All The King\'92s Men.\par \tab Answer:\tab Robert Penn \plain\f16\fs20\ul Warren\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) The founder of the Kenyon Review, this poet\'92s main body of work is collected in Two Gentlemen in Bonds and Chills and Fever, while his literary essays are collected in The World\'92s Body and God Without Thunder.\par \tab Answer:\tab John Crowe \plain\f16\fs20\ul Ransom\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (15 points) Along with Robert Penn Warren, this critic coedited The Southern Review. The author of Modern Rhetoric and Literary Criticism: A Short History, in works such as The Well Wrought Urn he introduced the tenets of New Criticism into the teaching of literature.\par \tab Answer:\tab Cleanth \plain\f16\fs20\ul Brooks\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 12. Answer these questions relating to the theory of congruences, for 10 points each:\par (10 points) Many mathematical congruences arise from this type of relation characterized by reflexivity, symmetry, and transitivity.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 equivalence\plain\f16\fs20  relation\par (10 points) This theorem states that for any number a, a raised to phi of n equals 1 modulo n.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Euler\plain\f16\fs20 's Theorem\par (10 points) A more specific form of Euler's theorem is this "small" theorem which states that if a is a number and p is prime, then a raised to p minus 1 is congruent to 1 modulo p.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fermat\'92s \plain\f16\fs20 Little Theorem\par \par 13. Name these 20th century artists from works, FTSNOP:\par 1. (10 points) \plain\i\f16\fs20 Woman I - IV\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Answer:\tab Willem de \plain\f16\fs20\ul Kooning\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (15 points) \plain\i\f16\fs20 Mountains and Sea\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Ocean Desert\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Answer:\tab Helen \plain\f16\fs20\ul Frankenthaler\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (5 points) \plain\i\f16\fs20 Autumn Rhythm\plain\f16\fs20 , various drip paintings\par \tab Answer: Jackson \plain\b\f16\fs20 Pollack\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. FTPE, name the following about a Native American uprising.\par 1. (10 points) This son of Massasoit led several New England tribes in a series of raids against frontier settlements in 1675 and 1676, but the movement collapsed after his death.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 King Philip\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Metacom\plain\f16\fs20 et\par 2. (10 points) King Philip was chief of this tribe. They joined with the Narragansett and Nipmuck during King Philip's War.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Wampanoag\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This woman was taken captive with her 6 year-old daughter after a raid on Lancaster, Massachusetts. Her famous account of the ordeal, The Sovereignty and Goodness of God, was the first ever Indian captivity narrative.\par \tab Answer: Mary \plain\b\f16\fs20 Rowlandson\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 15. Identify these T\'92ang dynasty poets from descriptions, for 10 points each:\par 1. The most populist of the T\'92ang dynasty poets, he supposedly read all his poems to a washerwoman for approval. The favorite of Arthur Waley, his most famous pomes are his \'93The Lute Song\'94 and \'93The Song of Everlasting Regret.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Po Chu-I\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. A master of regulated verse, or lu-shih, his political leanings were largely Confucian, and he wrote many narrative poems of the misery of the An-Lu-Shan rebellion, such as "The Ballad of the Army Carts"\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Tu Fu\plain\f16\fs20  (or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Du Fu\plain\f16\fs20 )\par 3. In contrast to Tu Fu, this poet was a Taoist and was exiled for his role in the An-Lu-Shan rebellion. He is well known for his hedonistic poems about drinking and women.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Li Po\plain\f16\fs20  (or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Li Bo\plain\f16\fs20 )\par \par 16. 5-10-15, answer stuff.\par 1. (5 points) This is a highly ionized gas in which the number of free electrons is approximately equal to the number of positive ions.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 plasma\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This force, named for a Dutch gentleman, governs the motion of a charged particle in plasma, and is given by the charge times the quantity (Electric Field + velocity cross magnetic field).\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Lorentz\plain\f16\fs20  Force\par 3. (15 points) Not named for a gentleman, this is the rate at which a charged particle harmonically oscillates in a plasma.  It is expressed as the charge of the particle times the magnetic field divided by the mass of the particle.\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Cyclotron\plain\f16\fs20  frequency\par \par 17. Identify some dead philosophers from clues, for 10 points each:\par 1. This thinker is probably best-known for his "Critique of Pure Reason"\par \tab Answer: Immanuel \plain\b\f16\fs20 Kant\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. This nutty Austrian has had virtually his entire collection of notebooks published as \'93The Blue and Brown Books\'94 but you may know him better for his \plain\i\f16\fs20 Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Ludwig \plain\f16\fs20\ul Wittgenstein\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. This logical positivist wrote a biography of Wittgenstein, as well as \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Origins of Pragmatism\plain\f16\fs20 , but his greatest contribution is his seminal \plain\i\f16\fs20 Language, Truth, and Logic\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Alfred Jules \plain\f16\fs20\ul Ayer\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \sl240 18. FTPE, answer the following about a military battle.\par 1. (10 points) This 1870 battle resulted when the Prussians intercepted the French in an attempt to relieve the Rhine Army at Metz. Surrounded, Napoleon III surrendered 83,000 troops, virtually ending the Franco-Prussian War.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Sedan\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This descendant of Irish Jacobites followed up his defeat at Worth by planning the relief effort to Metz which resulted in the loss at Sedan, where he was in command with Napoleon III.\par \tab Answer: Marie \plain\b\f16\fs20 MacMahon\plain\f16\fs20 , Duke of Magenta\par 3. (10 points) This Prussian field marshall engineered the victory at Sedan, and led the Prussian victories in wars with Denmark and Austria as well.\par \tab Answer: Helmuth \plain\b\f16\fs20 Moltke\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard 19. Bight me! FTPE, name these important bights from world geography.\par 1. (10 points) This bay of the Atlantic Ocean on the west coast of Africa extends eastward for about 400 miles from Cape St. John, Ghana to the Nun outlet of the Niger River.\par \tab Answer: Bight of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Benin\plain\f16\fs20  (or Bight of Bonny)\par 2. (10 points) This wide embayment of the Indian Ocean indenting Australia's southern coast is generally accepted to run from Cape Pasley, Western Australia, to Cape Carnot, South Australia.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Great Australian Bight\par \plain\f16\fs20 3. (10 point) This inlet of the Gulf of Carpentaria in the northeast coast of Northern Territory extends for 85 miles between the islands of Groote Eylandt and the Sir Edward Pellew Group.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Limmen\plain\f16\fs20  Bight\par \par 20. Identify these Latin American authors from description, for 10 points each:\par 1. This Argentine is obsessed with old movies, which he writes about his \plain\i\f16\fs20 Betrayed by Rita Hayworth\plain\f16\fs20 . He is also the author of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Tropical Night Falling\plain\f16\fs20 , and of course, \plain\i\f16\fs20 Kiss of the Spider Woman\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Manuel \plain\f16\fs20\ul Puig\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. This Chilean poet was really torn up about the suffering of children, and wrote a children\'92s book entitled \plain\i\f16\fs20 Crickets and Frogs\plain\f16\fs20 . Her more well known works include \plain\i\f16\fs20 Desolacion\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Sonnets of Death\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Gabriela \plain\f16\fs20\ul Mistral\plain\f16\fs20  (also accept Lucila Godoy Alcayaga)\par 3.  Influenced by the Symbolists, this Nicaraguan poet wrote a diatribe against U.S. foreign policy entitled, \'93To Roosevelt\'94, and is also the author of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Azul \plain\f16\fs20 and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Songs of Life and Hope\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:\tab Ruben \plain\f16\fs20\ul Dario\plain\f16\fs20  (also accept Felix Ruben Garcia \plain\f16\fs20\ul Sarmiento\plain\f16\fs20 )\par \par 21. Made up of five civilians, this agency was created in 1946 and was responsible for developing and testing nuclear weapons and for encouraging peaceful uses of the new technology.  For 10 points each:\par 1. What was this agency abolished in 1974 and once chaired by Lewis Strauss?\par \tab Answer:\tab \plain\f16\fs20\ul Atomic Energy Commission\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul AEC\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. In 1954 the AEC stripped this man of his security clearance for alleged communist associations.\par \tab Answer:\tab J. Robert \plain\f16\fs20\ul Oppenheimer\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. The first director of the AEC was this former director of the TVA.\par \pard\keepn \tab Answer:\tab David \plain\f16\fs20\ul Lilienthal\plain\f16 \par \pard \par }
