{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard\keepn \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF Fall Tournament 2001\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \plain\b\f16\fs20 Packet by Stanford University A (Roger Bhan)\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard\keepn \plain\b\f16\fs20 Toss-Up Questions\par \pard \plain\f16\fs20 \par 1. The climax of this novel occurs on the narrator's thirtieth birthday, when he declares \'93I\'92m five years too old to lie to myself and call it honor.\'94  Descended from the Dukes of Buccleuch, the narrator had come east to learn the bond business. He is constantly offered \'93gonnegtions\'94 by the wily Jew purported to have fixed the 1919 World Series, Meyer Wolfsheim, becomes involved with Jordan Baker, and becomes privy to the secrets of the title character, who loves Daisy Buchanan.  Narrated by Nick Carraway, FTP, what is this most-famous novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Great Gatsby\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. This physical law was first derived from experiments resulting in the structures of sodium chloride and zinc sulfide.  This law was derived from Ewald\'92s theory of atomic distance and greatly simplifies the von Laue description of wave interference.  It is governed by a simple equation that relates the diffraction of X-rays in crystals at certain angles of incidence, stating that n lambda equals two d times the sine of theta.  FTP, identify this law named after a father and son pair who won a Nobel Prize for their work in 1915.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bragg\plain\f16\fs20 \'92s law\par \par 3. Ecclesiastically, it ended all religious persecution in Germany and confirmed the Treaty of Passau and the Peace of Augsburg.  Politically, it ceded the archbishoprics of Bremen and Verden to Sweden, while the Lower Palatinate was restored to Charles Louis, eldest son of Frederick V, and the de facto independence of the United Provinces of the Netherlands was recognized.  Including the Treaties of Munster and Osnabruck, FTP, what was this agreement that was signed on October 24, 1648 and ended the Thirty Years\'92 War?\par \tab Answer: Peace of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Westphalia\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 4. The composer of this piece had projected an additional slow movement, a \plain\i\f16\fs20 larghetto\plain\f16\fs20  in D major, of which only sixteen measures survive.  The second movement features a dialogue between the first violins and the low strings to the accompaniment of sixteenth notes in the middle instruments. In the first movement, the string quartet plays an arpeggiation of the tonic triad which is answered by the arpeggiation of the dominant seventh chord.  The composer halted his work on \plain\i\f16\fs20 Don Giovanni\plain\f16\fs20  to write this piece, K. 525.  FTP, identify this serenade by Mozart that shares its name with a Stephen Sondheim musical.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\i\f16\fs20 Eine Kleine Nachtmusik\plain\b\f16\fs20  \plain\f16\fs20 or \plain\i\f16\fs20 A \plain\b\i\f16\fs20 Little Night Music\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 5. This thinker's first work was published while a professor at the University of Halle, and was entitled \plain\i\f16\fs20 Philosophie der Arithmetik\plain\f16\fs20 .  His most important contribution to philosophy was considered solipsistic by others, so he attempted to show how individual consciousness can be applied to other minds and history in \plain\i\f16\fs20 Cartesian Meditations\plain\f16\fs20 .  His most important idea involved \'93bracketing existence\'94 in contemplating an object, providing a means of describing \'93things themselves.\'94  FTP, identify this German philosopher and author of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Ideas: A General Introduction to Pure Phenomenology\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Edmund \plain\b\f16\fs20 Husserl\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 6. Among its powers are invisibility, flight, the creation of magical music, misdirection, the creation of storms and fire, and transformation, the last of which is used to change into a nymph in Act I, Scene ii, and to a harpy in Act III, Scene iii.  This creature of ambiguous gender was imprisoned in a pine tree\'92s trunk by the evil witch Sycorax, but then freed by the newly arrived island inhabitants, both of whom it serves in return, creating a storm to exact revenge upon Antonio and his kinsmen at the behest of Miranda and Prospero.  FTP, identify this airy spirit that appears in Shakespeare\'92s \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Tempest\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ariel\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 7. The relative rate of this compound's carboxylation is varied by the YPC model parameter.  In a pathway that regenerates NAD+ from NADH, this triose ketoacid is converted via acetaldehyde into carbon dioxide and ethanol in an anaerobic environment.  It is also anaerobically converted into lactate during muscle contraction, and serves as an important biochemical intermediate by bonding with acetyl coenzyme A to enter the Krebs cycle.  FTP, identify this molecule produced by glycolysis.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 pyruvate \plain\f16\fs20 (DO NOT ACCEPT pyruvic acid)\par \par 8. It was described in some detail by the Muslim geographer al-Bakri, while the first known references to it occur in Arabic writings that date from the 5th century.  Its major trade centers included Awdaghost and Walata, and its ruling dynasty belonged to the Soninke people.  It was revived for a brief time after being overrun by the Almoravids in 1076, though it finally succumbed to the Susu tribe in 1203 when they captured its capital, Kumbi Saleh.  FTP, identify this ancient kingdom that gives its name to a modern African country formerly known as the Gold Coast and whose capital is Accra.\par \tab Answer: Kingdom of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ghana\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 9. Perhaps in anticipation of his death, this author posed in photographs as a shipwrecked sailor and St. Sebastian shot dead with arrows.  Author of the dramas \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Moon Like a Drawn Bow\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 My Friend Hitler\plain\f16\fs20 , he is more famous for his novels, such as 1950\'92s \plain\i\f16\fs20 Thirst for Love\plain\f16\fs20 .  Among his best works were the novels \plain\i\f16\fs20 Spring Snow\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 Runaway Horses\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Temple of Dawn\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Five Signs of a God\'92s Decay, \plain\f16\fs20 which made up the tetralogy \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Sea of Fertility\plain\f16\fs20 . Famous for committing \plain\i\f16\fs20 seppuku\plain\f16\fs20  in 1970,  FTP, identify this Japanese writer most famous for \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Temple of the Golden Pavilion\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Yukio \plain\b\f16\fs20 Mishima\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 10. During this phase, Brachet\'92s cleft becomes visible between the epiblast and the hypoblast.  Epiboly arrests briefly and then continues after formation of the embryonic shield.  Its primary characteristic is the archenteron, which eventually forms the cavity of the gut and is connected to the outside by the blastopore, which becomes either an animal\'92s mouth or anus.  The primary germ layers are also formed during this stage of development.  FTP, identify this stage of embryonic development that follows the blastula.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 gastrula\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 11. The intent of the Federal advance in this battle was to seize the Memphis & Charleston Railroad.  The Union counterattack was led by Major General Lewis Wallace on April 7, against which Beauregard managed a tenacious defense.  Beginning when Confederate forces launched an offense attempting to push the Union, led by Grant, into the swamps at Owl Creek, the Confederate flank attack was stalled at Sarah Bell\'92s peach orchard and the \'93hornet\'92s nest,\'94 during which General A. S. Johnston was killed.  FTP, identify this early battle of the Civil War that took place at Pittsburg Landing.\par \tab Answer: Battle of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Shiloh \plain\f16\fs20 (accept Battle of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Pittsburg Landing \plain\f16\fs20 on early buzz)\par \par 12. The eleventh chapter of this work declares gambling a \'93subsidiary trait of the barbarian temperament,\'94 and is entitled \'93The Belief in Luck.\'94 It expounds on society\'92s \'93need\'94 for fashionable clothing in the chapter entitled \'93Dress as an Expression of the Pecuniary Culture\'94, while the introductory chapter describes the namesake social stratum and attempts to account for their seemingly wasteful expenditures, as detailed in the chapter entitled \'93Conspicuous Consumption.\'94  FTP, identify this seminal 1899 work of economics by Thorstein Veblen.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 The \plain\b\i\f16\fs20 Theory of the Leisure Class\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. One of his aspects is the cosmic dancer Nataraja, and his phallus is represented by the stone \plain\i\f16\fs20 lingam\plain\f16\fs20 .  At one point he swallowed the world\'92s sins and has held them in his throat ever since, contributing to his blue color.  Named for the Sanskrit for \'93Auspicious One\'94, this father of Ganesha had a bull called Nandi, and his consort is represented in many forms, including Uma, Shakti, Durga, Kali, and Parvati.  FTP, identify this god of the Hindu trinity that is usually given the epithet \'93The Destroyer.\'94\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Shiva\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 14. This poem is composed of four quattrains in which the speaker beseeches the reader, \'93may there be no sadness of farewell, / When I embark\'85\'94  The dark comes after \'93twilight and evening bell,\'94 and the speaker expresses his wish to see his "Pilot face to face" after the title journey is complete. Beginning with the speaker's assessment that there is one clear call for him, FTP, identify this poem that employs the metaphor of a sandbar as a line between life and death, intended to appear as the final poem in all collections of the poems of Alfred, Lord Tennyson.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\i\f16\fs20 Crossing the Bar\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 15. Among the attractions in this city are the Underground Palace, the Tekfur Sarayi, and the Topkapi Palace. The modern center is in the northern part, Beyoglu, which is separated by the Golden Horn from the old walled city, which is home to seven steep hills which maintain a medieval appearance. Home to the Blue Mosque and the Hagia Sophia, FTP, what is this largest city in Turkey formerly known as Constantinople?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Istanbul\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. Recent studies have shown that infectivity of the cytomegalovirus may require this functional group in its free form.  It can be qualitatively detected using lead(II) acetate, which produces a yellow solid if this functional group is present.  They are oxidized by mild oxidizing agents such as molecular iodine to produce disulfides, and cysteine is unique in that it is the only amino acid to bear this functional group.  FTP, identify this functional group from organic chemistry formerly known as mercaptan and consisting of a sulfur atom bonded to a hydrogen atom.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 thiol\plain\f16\fs20  (accept \plain\b\f16\fs20 mercaptan\plain\f16\fs20  on early buzz)\par \par 17. This man gained the throne in accordance with the Treaty of Wallingford.  His northern campaigns regained Cumbria and Northumbria from Malcom IV of Scotland, but his sons conspired with Philip II Augustus to remove him from power.  He more than doubled his continental holdings when he married the ex-wife of Louis VII, Eleanor of Aquitaine, and he earned the scorn of his nation after he was implicated in the assassination of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas a Becket.  FTP, identify this British monarch that ruled from 1154-1189, the first of the Plantagenets.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Henry II\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 18. A contributor to the magazine \plain\i\f16\fs20 G\plain\f16\fs20 , this man served as director of the Werkbund-sponsored Weissenhof project in the 1920s and 30s, producing the Weissenhof Apartment Complex in Stuttgart in 1927. Architect of the New National Gallery in Berlin and the Tugendhat House in Brno, he was famous for his dictum \'93Less is more". One-time director of the Bauhaus, he also produced the Farnsworth House in Plano, Illinois and the Lake Shore Drive Apartments in Chicago.  FTP, identify this architect perhaps most famous for collaborating with Philip Johnson on New York\'92s Seagram Building.\par \tab Answer: Ludwig \plain\b\f16\fs20 Mies van der Rohe\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 19. Wolfgang Kohler\'92s \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Mentality of Apes\plain\f16\fs20  presents a refutation of the ideas of this psychologist.  He served as an instructor in genetic psychology at Columbia and in 1904 was made director of the Institute of Educational Research.  His works \plain\i\f16\fs20 Educational Psychology\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Mental and Social Measurements\plain\f16\fs20  reflected his interest in the intelligence of children, but he is better known for his namesake puzzle box that he used for testing animal psychology.  FTP, identify this psychologist and author of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Animal Intelligence\plain\f16\fs20 , the developer of the laws of exercise and effect.\par \tab Answer: Edward \plain\b\f16\fs20 Thorndike\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 20. This poem's eleventh section contains the famous episode of the \'93twenty-ninth bather,\'94 who watches twenty-eight men bathing in the ocean and wishes she could join them unobserved.  The poet takes on the speaker\'92s voice in the twenty-fifth section, proclaiming \'93Speech is the twin of my vision, it is unequal to measure itself,\'94 while the sixth section contains another famous scene in which a child asks the narrator, \'93What is the grass?\'94  The first work in the collection \plain\i\f16\fs20 Leaves of Grass\plain\f16\fs20 , FTP, identify this autobiographical poem by Walt Whitman.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\i\f16\fs20 Song of Myself\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 21. The curve representing this quantity is always downward sloping due to Pigou\'92s wealth effect, Keynes\'92 interest-rate effect, and the Mundell-Fleming exchange-rate effect.  In the Mundell-Fleming model, it can be stated by an equation that relates consumption as a function of disposable income and investment as a function of interest rates, net exports, and the GDP, all of which, when added together, equal the total income or output. FTP, what is this economics concept that represents the total demand for goods and services in an economy?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 aggregate demand\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 22. His name means \'93Panther Crossing,\'94 and he fought alongside Little Turtle at the Battle of Fallen Timbers, gaining notoriety for not signing the 1795 Treaty of Greenville.  His people were forced out of Ohio and moved in 1808 to Indiana, where he tried to form an alliance with other Native American tribes.  However, his plans were thwarted when his brother was defeated at the Battle of Tippecanoe, and Richard M. Johnson claimed to have killed him at the Battle of the Thames.  FTP, identify this Shawnee leader, brother of The Prophet.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Tecumseh\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 23. This author's early travails contributed to his pseudonym, which means \'93the bitter one.\'94  Some of his works helped to found the socialist realism movement, including \plain\i\f16\fs20 Queer People\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 Enemies\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Last One\plain\f16\fs20 .  His first play, \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Smug Citizen\plain\f16\fs20 , garnered much attention for depicting the worker as superior to the intellectual, but he is most famous for his second play.  FTP, identify this Russian playwright of \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Lower Depths\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Maxim \plain\b\f16\fs20 Gorky\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 24. This rule holds valid if the following approximations are made: all overlap integrals are set equal to zero, all resonance integrals between non-neighboring atoms are set equal to zero, and all remaining resonance integrals are set equal to each other.  Essentially, all the Coulomb integrals for the atomic orbitals that contribute to the pi orbitals are set equal.  This rule states that pi electrons undergo delocalization if there are 4n+2 pi electrons in a given molecule.  FTP, identify this rule that determines a molecule\'92s planarity and aromaticity.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 H\'fcckel\plain\f16\fs20 \'92s rule\par \par 25. Early in his career this politician served as private secretary to associate justice Louis Brandeis, and in 1933 was undersecretary of the treasury.  Among his writings are \plain\i\f16\fs20 Power and Diplomacy\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Present at the Creation: My Years in the State Department\plain\f16\fs20 , which received a Pulitzer in 1970.  He was accused by McCarthy for protecting Communists due to his defense of Alger Hiss, but is more famous for implementing the Marshall Plan.  FTP, identify this secretary of state under Harry Truman.\par \tab Answer: Dean \plain\b\f16\fs20 Acheson\par \pard\keepn \plain\f16\fs20 \par \plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \page ACF Fall Tournament 2001\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \plain\b\f16\fs20 Stanford University A (Roger Bhan)\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard\keepn \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bonus Questions\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \par 1. Identify the following concerning muscle contraction FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) The sarcomere consists of these two contractile proteins that interact to bring about contractions.  Identify them FFPE.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul actin\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\f16\fs20\ul myosin\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) The interaction of actin and myosin occurs because of this polypeptide interspersed within actin filaments.  It displaces tropomyosin and exposes the active site of actin that allows binding to myosin.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul troponin\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Troponin binds to ions of this element in order to promote contraction.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul calcium\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Ca\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. Identify these sections from Chaucer\'92s \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Canterbury Tales\plain\f16\fs20  FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) A knight must make amends for a sexual transgression by finding out what women want most from their husbands.  In exchange for the answer, he must marry an old hag.  After the knight learns his lesson, the hag turns into a beautiful woman.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Wife of Bath\plain\i\f16\fs20 \'92s Tale\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Three drunken youths from Flanders attempt to find Death, but find instead eight bags of gold under a tree.  Through treachery, they all end up killing each other in an attempt to keep more gold.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Pardoner\plain\i\f16\fs20 \'92s Tale\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This tale centers on the Theban soldiers Palamon and Arcite, both of whom vie for the hand of Emily, sister of Theseus.  Arcite dies from wounds received in a tournament and Palamon and Emily are wed after a period of grieving.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Knight\plain\i\f16\fs20 \'92s Tale\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 3. Identify these figures of the Trojan War FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This man was the father of Paris and king of Troy during the war.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Priam\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This son of Tydeus traveled with Odysseus on many adventures.  He wounds Ares in Book Five of the \plain\i\f16\fs20 Iliad\plain\f16\fs20  and exchanges armor with Glaukus on the battle field after recognizing him as a relative.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Diomedes\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) The king of Pylos, this old windbag spent most of his time preaching wisdom to the Greeks, who didn\'92t listen very much, of course.  Telemachus pays this man a visit while searching for his father Odysseus.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Nestor\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 4. Identify the following concerning the history of India FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This third king of the Maurya dynasty ruled from 269-232 BCE and controlled most of the Indian subcontinent.  He is famous for his promulgation of the Buddhist faith.\tab \par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Ashoka\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This last great Mughal emperor was the third son of Shah Jahan and ruled from 1658-1707.  He wrested power from his brothers and abandoned his predecessors\'92 policy of tolerance to Hindus.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Aurangzeb\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This dynasty was founded circa 320 CE by the ruler of the Magadha kingdom.  Their rule has often been called the golden age of Indian history, since it saw the flowering of literature and mathematics.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Gupta\plain\f16\fs20  dynasty\par \par 5. Identify the following about a painter FTSNOP.\par 1. (10 points) Puberty is a famous painting by this artist, much of whose work is collected in The Frieze of Life.\par \tab Answer: Edvard \plain\b\f16\fs20 Munch\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (5 points) Perhaps Munch\'92s most famous work is this canvas depicting an expressionist figure on a bridge.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Scream\plain\f16\fs20  or The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cry\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (15 points) On opposite sides of this canvas is a woman in white bearing a cheerful expression and a woman in black looking forlorn.  Between them are many couples dancing in a garden.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Dance of Life\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 6. Identify the following concerning spectral lines FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This effect results in the splitting of spectral lines in the presence of a magnetic field.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Zeeman\plain\f16\fs20  effect\par 2. (10 points) Similar to the Zeeman effect, this effect results in the splitting of spectral lines in the presence of an electric field.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Stark\plain\f16\fs20  effect\par 3. (10 points) This two-word term refers to closely spaced optical spectral lines arising from transitions between energy levels that are split by the vibrational or rotational motion of a molecule or by electron spin.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul fine structure\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 7. Identify these criminal characters from Dickens\'92 \plain\i\f16\fs20 Oliver Twist\plain\f16\fs20  FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This criminal rarely commits crimes himself, but instead gathers homeless boys to pick pockets for him.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Fagin\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This ready-to-laugh member of Fagin\'92s pickpocketing gang changes his criminal ways after Bill Sikes\'92 murder of Nancy.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Charley\plain\f16\fs20  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Bates\plain\f16\fs20  (accept either name)\par 3. (10 points) This humorous thief introduces Oliver to Fagin\'92s gang.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Jack\plain\f16\fs20  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Dawkins\plain\f16\fs20  (accept either name) or The Artful \plain\f16\fs20\ul Dodger\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 8. Identify the following about the work of an anthropologist FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This 1934 work describes three different cultures: the Pueblo Indians, the Dobu Islanders, and the Kwakiutl, and uses information collected by Reo Fortune, Franz Boas, and the author.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Patterns of Culture\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Name the author of Patterns of Culture, also known for Zuni Mythology and The Concept of the Guardian Spirit in North America.\par \tab Answer: Ruth \plain\b\f16\fs20 Benedict\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Benedict's stint in the Office of War Information during WWII provided her with the material to explore and characterize patterns in Japanese culture, as presented in this work, arguably her most famous\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Chrysanthemum and the Sword\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 9. Identify the following concerning U.S. politics during the Gilded Age FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This act, passed in 1887, forbade many of the monopolistic practices of the railroads.  It stemmed from the Wabash case which overturned the Granger Laws.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Interstate Commerce\plain\f16\fs20  Act\par 2. (10 points) This was a minor tariff reduction passed in 1894.  Although it was found unconstitutional, the act of this name also established an income tax.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Wilson-Gorman\plain\f16\fs20  Tariff or Act\par 3. (10 points) This 1883 act reformed the U.S. civil service, adding competitive examinations and protecting jobs for certain government employees.  It eliminated the spoils system.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Pendleton\plain\f16\fs20  Act\par \par 10. Identify these legal terms from descriptions FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) From the Latin for \'93of well-being,\'94 this term refers to doing the best possible under the circumstances, particularly in referring to evidence.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul de bene esse\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This is a writ or order issued by a court to a person having custody of another, commanding him or her to produce the detained person in order to determine the legality of the detention.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul habeas corpus\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This is a court order directing a public official to perform his or her public duties.  It applies to duties that an officeholder is required by law to perform, rather than acts within the discretion of the officeholder.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul writ of mandamus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 11. Identify the following concerning the electron transport chain FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) Along with flavin mononucleotide, this is the other coenzyme that appears in complex I.  It receives electrons from NADH.\par \tab Answer: coenzyme \plain\f16\fs20\ul Q\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul ubiquinone\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Complexes II and III are rife with these proteins whose function was elucidated in 1925 by David Keilin.  They are redox-active proteins that contain heme groups which reversibly alternate between their Fe(II) and Fe(III) states.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul cytochrome\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This particular cytochrome shuttles electrons from complex III to complex IV, where they are received by this cytochrome\'92s oxidase variety.\par \tab Answer: cytochrome \plain\f16\fs20\ul c\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 12. Identify the Greek philosopher given a description FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This last member of the Ionian school held that air was the primordial element to which everything else can be reduced.  He introduced the notions of condensation and rarefaction to explain this belief.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Anaximenes\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Likely the first person to attempt to construct a map of the known world, this thinker believed that the fundamental substance of existence is an indeterminant \'93apeiron\'94.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Anaximander\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Only fragments of his \plain\i\f16\fs20 On Nature\plain\f16\fs20  survive.  He was the first to introduce the concept of the \plain\i\f16\fs20 nous\plain\f16\fs20 , and believed that all bodies were aggregates of atoms, thereby paving the way for the beliefs of Democritus and Leucippus.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Anaxagoras\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. FTSNOP, name the following works by everyone's favorite Chinua, Chinua Achebe.\par 1. (10 points) Perhaps the most famous work by Achebe is this novel which details the trials of Okonkwo and the subjugation of his Ibo village by the English.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Things Fall Apart\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This novel takes place in the fictional country of Kangan, where a military coup puts an ill-prepared officer into power.  His friends, Chris Oriko and Ikem Osodi, become victims of his paranoia and despotism.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Anthills of the Savannah\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) In this novel, the narrator Odili studies the character of his former teacher, M. A. Nanga, who has risen to the post of Minister of Culture in his west African nation.  The novel chronicles Nanga\'92s abuses as a politician.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 A \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Man of the People\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. Identify the following concerning early French history FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) In 481 CE, this successor to Childeric I came to power and was the first to unite all the Frankish tribes that had settled west of the Rhine.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Clovis I\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Chlodovecus\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) In 486 CE, Clovis defeated this son of Aegidius and Roman political leader of Gaul, thereby assuring the success of the Frankish line of kings.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Syagrius\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This was the 486 CE battle at which Clovis defeated Syagrius, which allowed for the settlement of Frankish peasants along the western edge of the Rhine.\par \pard \li360 \tab Answer: Battle of \plain\f16\fs20\ul Soissons\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \par 15. Identify the composer from works F15PE, or FFPE if you need easier works.\par 1. (15 points) \plain\i\f16\fs20 Siegfried Idyll\plain\f16\fs20 ; \plain\i\f16\fs20 Wesendonk Lieder\plain\f16\fs20 \par (5 points) \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Flying Dutchman\plain\f16\fs20 ; \plain\i\f16\fs20 Rienzi\plain\f16\fs20 ; \plain\i\f16\fs20 Lohengrin\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Answer: Richard \plain\f16\fs20\ul Wagner\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (15 points) \plain\i\f16\fs20 Dances of the League of David\plain\f16\fs20 ; \plain\i\f16\fs20 Paridise and the Peri; Kreisleriana\plain\f16\fs20 \par (5 points) \plain\i\f16\fs20 Dreaming\plain\f16\fs20 ; \plain\i\f16\fs20 Spring Symphony\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab Answer: Robert \plain\f16\fs20\ul Schumann\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. Identify these reactions from organic chemistry FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This reaction produces a ring compound from the conjunction of a conjugated diene to a dienophile.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Diels-Alder\plain\f16\fs20  reaction\par 2. (10 points) This reaction results in an alkyl group or acyl group substituting onto a benzene ring.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Friedel-Crafts\plain\f16\fs20  reaction\par 3. (10 points) This reaction is used to prepare alkanes by reacting a haloalkane with sodium in dry ether.  An analogous reaction occurs using a haloalkane and a haloarene and is called the Fittig reaction.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Wurtz\plain\f16\fs20  reaction\par \par 17. Identify the following concerning Buddhism FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) Translated as \'93Three Baskets,\'94 this is the name of the collection of sacred Buddhist writings.\par \tab Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Tipitaka\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Tripitaka\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This term is given to a person who has reached enlightenment but remains with those who have not reached nirvana in order to educate them.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul bodhisattva\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) While the bodhisattva is considered the most reverent figure in Mahayana Buddhism, Theravada Buddhists consider this figure to be of higher stature.  In contrast to the bodhisattva, this person has attained nirvana and has left the unenlightened behind.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul arhat\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 18. Identify these German poets from descriptions FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This 19th century poet\'92s collections include \plain\i\f16\fs20 Romanzero\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Book of Songs\plain\f16\fs20 .  This leader of the Young Germany movement is famous for his poem \plain\i\f16\fs20 Lorelei\plain\f16\fs20 , as well as \plain\i\f16\fs20 Germany, a Winter Tale\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Heinrich \plain\f16\fs20\ul Heine\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This poet\'92s collections include \plain\i\f16\fs20 Salvations\plain\f16\fs20 , \plain\i\f16\fs20 Woman and the World\plain\f16\fs20 , and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Beautiful Wild World\plain\f16\fs20 .  Influenced by Nietzsche, one of his texts served as the basis for Schoenberg\'92s \plain\i\f16\fs20 Transfigured Night\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Richard \plain\f16\fs20\ul Dehmel\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This one-time secretary to Rodin wrote the novel \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Notebooks of Malte Laurdis Brigge\plain\f16\fs20 .  His most famous poetry collections are \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Duino Elegies\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Sonnets to Orpheus\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Ranier Maria \plain\f16\fs20\ul Rilke\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 19. Identify these evolutionary terms FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) Associated with Niles Eldridge and Stephen Jay Gould, this theory purports that species usually arise very quickly in terms of geological time, rather than through a process of gradual change.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul punctuated equilibrium\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This is a controversial method of species classification that places plants and animals into taxonomic groups based on homologies that are thought to indicate common ancestries.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul cladistics\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This effect occurs when populations are started from a small number of pioneer individuals of an original population.  Due to small sample size, the new population could have radically different allelic frequencies than the original one.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul founder\plain\f16\fs20  effect\par \par 20. Identify these important individuals from the New Deal era FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) The first female to hold a cabinet position in the U.S., this woman served as Secretary of Labor from 1933-45.\par \tab Answer: Frances \plain\f16\fs20\ul Perkins\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This advisor to FDR administered funding provided by the Federal Emergency Relief Act.  He became head of the Works Progress Administration and administered the lend-lease program.  He also became Secretary of Commerce in 1939.\par \tab Answer: Harry \plain\f16\fs20\ul Hopkins\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This Detroit radio preacher\'92s followers created the National Union of Social Justice in response to his critique of New Deal legislation.\par \tab Answer: Father Charles \plain\f16\fs20\ul Coughlin\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 21. Identify these art movements from brief descriptions FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This Parisian group of Post-Impressionist artists shared their emphasis on design with the Art Nouveau movement.  The core of this movement consisted of artists such as Pierre Bonnard, Maurice Denis, and \'c9douard Vuillard.\par \tab Answer: Les \plain\b\f16\fs20 Nabis\par \plain\f16\fs20 2. (10 points) The expressionistic style of this group is characterized by animated brushwork and emotionally distorted forms and spaces.  Its members included Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Max Pechstein, and Fritz Bleyl.\par \tab Answer: Die \plain\b\f16\fs20 Br\'fccke\plain\f16\fs20  (or The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bridge\plain\f16\fs20 )\par 3. (10 points) The principal exponent of this British art movement of the early 20th century was Gaudier-Brzeska.  Related to Futurism, it sought to simplify forms into machinelike angularity, and one of its founders was the writer Wyndham Lewis.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Vorticism\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 22. Identify these SI units involved in radiation FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This is the SI unit of activity and equals one decay per second.  It replaced the curie as the unit of activity.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul becquerel\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Bq\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This is the SI unit of dose equivalent and is equal to the dose equivalent when the absorbed dose of ionizing radiation multiplied by the stipulated dimensionless factors is 1 joule per kilogram.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul sievert\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Sv\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This is the SI unit of absorbed dose and is equal to the energy per unit mass imparted to matter by ionizing radiation.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul gray\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\f16\fs20\ul Gy\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 23. Identify the following about the French and Indian War FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) The war was ended by this treaty, which gave all French positions east of the Mississippi, except New Orleans, to the British; and all French positions west of the Mississippi to Spain.\par \tab Answer: Treaty of \plain\f16\fs20\ul Paris\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) At this battle, on the Plains of Abraham, both French and English generals Montcalm and Wolfe perished. The British emerged victorious.\par \tab Answer: Battle of \plain\f16\fs20\ul Quebec\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) This British Colonel became the first British hero of the French and Indian War after his victory over the French at the Battle of Lake George on September 9, 1755.\par \tab Answer: William \plain\f16\fs20\ul Johnson\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 24. Identify these muckraking writers from descriptions FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) She wrote biographies of Lincoln and Napoleon, but is best known for her expos\'e9 of the oil monopoly in her two-volume \plain\i\f16\fs20 History of the Standard Oil Company\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer: Ida \plain\f16\fs20\ul Tarbell\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) This Danish-born author\'92s 1890 work \plain\i\f16\fs20 How the Other Half Lives\plain\f16\fs20  resulted in the elimination of Mulberry Bend, the worst New York slum of the time.\par \tab Answer: Jacob \plain\f16\fs20\ul Riis\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) His novel \plain\i\f16\fs20 Susan Lenox: Her Fall and Rise\plain\f16\fs20  describes the title character\'92s life as a country girl, prostitute, and famous actress.  He is known for his 1906 article \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Treason of the Senate\plain\f16\fs20 , which exposed congressional corruption.\par \tab Answer: David Graham \plain\f16\fs20\ul Phillips\plain\f16 \par \par }
