{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY SOUTH CAROLINA A/TEXAS A&M A\par \par TOSSUPS\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 1. Planning to emancipate the serfs upon ascension, this ruler was forced instead to secularize clerical land due to debt left by the empress Elisabeth. This monarch successfully conducted war against Turkey and put down Pugachov's rebellion, and before her mysterious 1797 death engaged in an affair with Grigory Potemkin. A friend of the enlightenment FTP identify this German-born Russian empress known as "the Great"?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Catherine II\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Catherine the Great\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. This artist's decorations for the Chapelle des Anges of S. Sulpice included his "Heliodorus Expelled from the Temple". Rumored to be the son of Talleyrand, he debuted at the Paris Salon of 1822 with Dante and Virgil in Hell, while a trip to northern Africa provided inspiration for exotic subjects like The Women of Algiers. Creator of "The Massacre at Chios" and "The Death of Sardanopolus", FTP, who was this French Romantic painter of "Liberty Leading the People"?\par \tab Answer: Eugene \plain\b\f16\fs20 Delacroix\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. The basis for the Venturl effect, this law can be used to explain the principle of flight. In it , compressibility and viscosity are assumed to be negligible. Equivalent to a statement of the law of conservation of energy, it states that the total mechanical energy of a fluid is the sum of the energy resulting from the fluid pressure and the potential and kinetic energies of the fluid. FTP, what is this law formulated in 1738 by its namesake Swiss scientist?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bernoulli\plain\f16\fs20 's Law\par \par 4. \'93Is it a fit time, said my father to himself, to talk of Pensions and Grenadiers?\'94 is the entire content of Chapter 5 of Volume IV of this novel, while both Chapters 18 and 19 of Volume IX of this novel are completely devoid of content. At various stages we learn of the protagonist's uncle, who was wounded at the siege of Namur, as well as Hafen Slawkenbergius, who is an expert on noses. Full of typographical eccentricities and violations of the conventions of the novel, other characters include the Widow Wadman, Parson Yorick, Uncle Toby, and the protagonist's father Walter. FTP, what is this novel describing the Life and Opinions of a Gentleman, written by Laurence Sterne?\par \tab Answer: The Life and Opinions of \plain\b\f16\fs20 Tristam Shandy\plain\f16\fs20 , Gentleman \par \par 5. This composer of the one-act opera "Overnight" showed an early interest in music, but had to wait for the "S" volume of an encyclopedia his family was buying on an installment plan before he could learn how to compose a sonata. Influenced by Richard Strauss, his Gurrelieder was one of the high points of post-romanticism. Departing from that style, he is famous today for works like "Moses and Aaron" and \'93Transfigured Night". FTP, name this German composer of "Pierrot Lunaire" who developed the 12-tone method of Composition.\par \tab Answer: Arnold \plain\b\f16\fs20 Schoenberg\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 6. The centers of these objects consist of mesons and hyperons, its intermediate layers maintain a superfluid state, while its outermost kilometer is solid, reaching temperatures as high as 1 million Kelvin. Perhaps their most important characteristic are their magnetic fields, which cause surface ions to polymerize into long chains of iron atoms. Believed to result when a massive star undergoes a Type II supernove explosion, its mass is restricted to below two solar masses by the Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit. FTP, what are these extremely small, superdense stars named for the presence of a certain type of particle?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 neutron\plain\f16\fs20  stars\par \par 7. United in 1632 by King Fasilides, its first permanent capital was Gonder. Home to the monolithic churches of King Lalibela, the youngest member of the Zagwe dynasty, a major event in its modern history was its repudiation of the Treaty of Ucciali, which led to its 1896 victory over Italy at Adowa, led by Menelik II. FTP, what is this African country whose most famous 20th century ruler was Haile Seslassie?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ethiopia\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 8. In the Thioreskssaga, he was the grandson of the King of Spain, wielded the sword Garm, and rode the fearless horse Grani, an offspring of Sleipnir. After killing Fafnir he captured the Andvaranant and was married before falling under the spell of Grimhild. Forgetting his wife, he married Gundrun, and was eventually slain by Gundrun's brother Guttorm. FTP identify this husband of Brunhilde and hero of the Ring Cycle. \tab \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Siegfried\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 9. Anticipated in the 11th chapter of Augustine's City of God, this philosophical statement served as the basis for its creator's entire philosophy, and created the basis of solipsism. It was first introduced in 1644's Principles of Philosophy, but its French equivalent received more notice in 1637's Discourse on Method. Based on the idea that the ability to doubt one's existence necessarily implies one does exist, FTP name this famous Latin dictum of Rene Descartes, which may be translated as "I think therefore I am."\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cogito Ergo Sum \plain\f16\fs20 (PROMPT: "Je Pense donc je suis" OR "I think therefore I am")\par \par 10. Classified into 4 categories, the last is susceptible only to a tachyon heterodyne grid. Used in the Tomad Incident to destroy an S-4023 ship, its weakness, the inability to fire torpedos, was described by the Khitomer Conference and eventually overcome by the renegade Klingon vessel, Dakronh. Used and then set aside by Starfleet, FTP, identify this Romulan technology which allows star ships to conceal themselves. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cloaking Device\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab \par 11. Much of the information in this book comes from Floyd Wells, who is serving time in Lansing Prison. The central event is investigated by KBI agent Alvin Dewey, while other information and rumors are circulated in Hartman\'92s Caf\'e9. The original suspect, Bobby Rupp, is cleared after passing a lie detector test, and it is eventually learned that the murderers are Richard Hickock and Perry Smith. FTP, what is this work about the murders of Nancy, Gonnie, Herbert, and Kenyon Clutter, written by Truman Capote? \par \tab Answer  \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul In Cold Blood\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 12. Solutions are called perfect is they obey this law over a wide range of concentrations. This law only holds for ideal binary mixtures, with positive or negative deviations occuring depending on whether the activity coefficient is greater than one or less than one. These deviations for mixtures of liquids result in the formation of azeotropes. Stated mathematically as p equals p sub 0 times X, FTP, what is this chemical law stating that the partial pressure of a solvent is proportional to its mole fraction?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Raoult\plain\f16\fs20 's law\par \par 13. This area was originally known as Mukuntuweap National Monument, but was enlarged to 230 miles in area and made a national park. 1,500 fott high walls can be found in its fingerlike Koblob Canyons, but its main attraction is a canyon cut by the Virgin River. FTP name this national park that is home to Sentinel Mountain, East Temple Mountain, and West Temple Mountain, located in southwestern Utah.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Zion\plain\f16\fs20  National Park\par \par 14. Originally a province of Scandinavia, its second incarnation reached its height under King Gundobad, but in 534 the Merovigians subjugated it. Broken up by the Treaty of Verdun and later by John the Good, its attempts to attain de facto independence were strengthened by dynastic marriages with the rulers of Flanders and reached their height under Duke Charles the Bold, but his death in 1477 brought it back under French control. Known for supporting England during the Hundred Years War, FTP, identify this region with capital at Dijon whose name also identifies a type of wine. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Burgundy\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 15. As this novel opens, one main character is returning from his first visit to Bombay in fifteen years. On the same plane is the other protagonist, an Indian film star who specializes in playing Hindu gods. After the plane is hijacked and explodes over the English channel, the two men, Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta, experience a series of metamorphoses, dreams, and revelations that imply a new interpretation for the founding of Islam. FTP, what was this controversial novel by Salman Rushdie?\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Satanic Verses\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. Members of this phylum possess gelatinous mesohyl regions through which food-collecting amoebocytes travel.  Most are hermaphrodites, lack nerves and muscles, and were not regarded as animals until the eighteenth century.  Water flows through the osculum in and out of the central cavity, called the spongocoel.  FTP, identify this invertebrate phylum which includes the sponges.\line \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Porifera \plain\f16\fs20  (prompt on early \'93sponges\'94)\par \par 17. The recipient of the first Political Science PhD from Harvard, this man began his political career in 1880. Co-author with Theodore Roosevelt of a book of "Hero Tales", like Roosevelt he issued a corollary to the Monroe Doctrine, his concerning the disapproval of sale of strategically important land by Latin-American countries. As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations committee, he issued 14 reservations in opposition to Wilson's 14 points. FTP identify this Massachusettes politician whose grandson of the same name also went on to a career in politics. \par \tab Answer: Henry Cabot \plain\b\f16\fs20 Lodge\par \plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 18. While a student of the Ecole Normale in the 1870's this author of "Pedogogical Evolution of France" became acquainted with Jean Juares, the future leader of the French Socialist party. Impressed by Wilhelm Wundt, many of his ideas can be found in "The Rules of Sociological Method" and "The Elementary Forms of Religious Life", while in "The Division of Labor in Society", he expressed his belief in the existence of a social disconnectedness, which he termed anomie. FTP identify this French sociologist best-known for his 1897 study "Suicide." \par \tab Answer: Emile \plain\b\f16\fs20 Durkheim\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 19. This author first gained acclaim for early novels line "The Victim" and "Dangling Man", while recent novels include "The Dean's December" and "The Theft". Known for drawing attention to the modern moral and social crises experienced by Jewish-Americans, his work ranges from the picaresque "The Adventures of Augie March" to philosophical works like "Mr. Sammler's Planet" and "Henderson, the Rain King". Winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize in Literature, FTP, who is this author of "Humboldt's Gift"?\par \tab Answer: Saul \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bellow\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 20. This mathematician's "characteristic" is defined to be the number of vertices of a graph minus the number of edges plus the number of faces. He introduced the symbols of pi and sigma to mathematics, and his phi function tells the amount of numbers between 1 and n relatively prime to n. He solved the Seven Bridges of Konigsburg problem, but went completely blind by 1766. FTP, who was this Swiss mathematicisn whose namesake identity involves the number e?\par \tab Answer: Leonhard \plain\b\f16\fs20 Euler\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 21. This poetic work gives its name to the meter in which it is written, a 4-couplet mix of iamb and anapest. An unfinished supernatural romance, the title character discoveres Geraldine while praying for her fiance in the woods and brings her back to her father's castle. However, she soon discoveres Geraldine is an enchantress, but when she tries to warn her father Sir Leoline he fails to believe her. FTP, what is this gothic ballad by Samuel Taylor Coleridge?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Christabel\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 22. Capable of being bounded by Gresgorin discs, Jacques Strum first studied these numbers in a general setting. Often labelled by a lambda, their constituent set is referred to as the spectrum, and are solutions to the characteristic polynomial. Their sum equals the matrix's trace, and their product equals the matrix's determinant. FTP, what are these "values" which for some value of x and matrix A fulfill the equation A times x equals lambda x?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 eigenvalues\plain\f16\fs20  (or characteristic values)\par \par 23. Returning from Athens, the protagonist of this work meets Polemarchos on the road and goes back with him to his home. Meeting Polemarchos' father, Cephalus, in the courtyard, the three men and Thrasymachus engage in a conversation during which Thrasymachus attempts to force the central figure to abandon his question-and-answer method. Dicussing the question of justice, the group concludes that justice favors the strong. A work in 10 Books, the tenth rejects poetry while the seventh contains the famous allegory of the cave. FTP identify this Platonic Dialouge in which Socrates describes the idea of the philosopher king and the government of an ideal state.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\i\f16\fs20 Republic\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 24. John Goodricke discovered delta prototype of this type of star in 1784. The exceptional RR Lyrae type hinders its main use, which derives from the fact that its size fluctuates anywhere from 7 to 15 percent, allowing them to be used to determine stellar distances using their period-luminosity law, discovered by Henrietta Leavitt. FTP, what are these pulsating variable stars?  \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cepheid Variable\plain\f16\fs20  Stars\par \par \plain\b\f16\fs20 \page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY SOUTH CAROLINA A/TEXAS A&M A\par \par BONUSES\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 1. Identify the following terms related to cell motility FTPE.\par 1. This locomotive appendage undulates, driving a cell in the same direction as the axis of the appendage.  There are usually no more than a few per cell.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 flagellum\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. These locomotive appendages work like oars, moving the cell in a direction perpendicular to its axis.  A single cell may have many of them.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 cilia\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. This structure is similar to a centriole, and it serves to anchor a cilium or flagellum.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 basal body\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. Identify these parts of the Appalachian system, FTPE\par 1. (10 points) Named for their ubiquitous haze, these mountains are found in Tennessee and North Carolina.\par \tab Answer: Great \plain\b\f16\fs20 Smoky \plain\f16\fs20 Mountains\par 2. (10 points) Extending from South Pennsylvania to Northern Georgia, this eastern part of the Appalachians is home to Shenandoah National Park.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Blue Ridge\plain\f16\fs20  Mountains\par 3. (10 points) Found in the Blue Ridge Mountains, at 6,684 feet high this is the highest peak east of the Mississippi.\par \tab Answer: Mount \plain\b\f16\fs20 Mitchell\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 3. FTPE, answer the following about the novel Vanity Fair.\par 1. (10 points) Who wrote Vanity Fair?\par \tab Answer: William Makepeace \plain\b\f16\fs20 Thackeray\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) One of the protagonists of Vanity Fair is this virtuous girl who loses her fiance George Osborne at the Battle of Waterloo and eventually marries William Dobbin, after earlier having been forced by poverty to give up her son Georgy to his grandfather.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Amelia Sedley\plain\f16\fs20  (accept either name)\par 3. (10 points) The other protagonist is this cunning woman who fleeces Joseph Sedley, but is eventually ostracised for her behaviour and forced to leave England.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Becky Sharp\plain\f16\fs20  (accept either name)\par \par 4. Name these figures from various mythologies noted for their tongues, 5-10-15.\par 1. (5 points) These sisters from Greek mythology had snakes for hair, tusks like boars, and lolling tongues. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Gorgons\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) From Norse Mythology, this son of Odin and Frigg is the patron of poets. Runes were carved on his tongue, and he inspired poetry in humans by letting them drink from the mead of poetry \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Bragi\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (15 points) From Hindu mythology, this god of the Rig-Veda personified fir,e and has two faces and seven tongues which he uses to lick up sacrificial butter. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Agni\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 5. Answer the following about famous relatives from American History:\par 1. The grandson of Jonathan Edward,s he led much less devout life, during which he served as vice-president and was arrested for treason. \par \tab Answer: Aaron \plain\b\f16\fs20 Burr\par \plain\f16\fs20 2. The son-in-law of Zachary Taylor, he too was arrested for treason. Never tried, he died in 1889 in New Orleans.\par \tab Answer: Jefferson \plain\b\f16\fs20 Davis\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. This son-in-law of Thomas Hart Benton was the first presidential nominee of the Republican party.\par \tab Answer: John C. \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fremont\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 6. Identify the following particles from Physics:\par 1. A member of a group of subatomic particles which obey the Pauli exclusion principle and have odd half-integral angular momentum \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fermions\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. Fermions may be subdivided into 2 classes. This first class respond only to electromagnetic, weak, and gravitational forces and do not take part in strong interactions. Examples include electrons, muons, and neutrinos.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Leptons\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. The other class, these particles are made up of three quarks. Examples include protons, neutrons, and muons. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hadrons\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 7. F5PE and a bonus 5 for all correct, name the composers of these orchestral pieces.\par 1. (10 points) Flight of the Bumblebee\par \tab Answer: Nikolai \plain\b\f16\fs20 Rimsky-Korsakov\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) In the Hall of the Mountain King\par \tab Answer: Edvard \plain\b\f16\fs20 Grieg\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Finlandia\par \tab Answer: Jean \plain\b\f16\fs20 Sibelius\plain\f16\fs20 \par 4. (10 points) The Rock, and The Isle of the Dead\par \tab Answer: Sergei \plain\b\f16\fs20 Rachmaninoff\plain\f16\fs20 \par 5. (10 points) La Valse\par \tab Answer: Maurice \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ravel\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 8. Answer the following about Russian literature: \par 1. Prominent in 19th century Russian works, this is a character type who is typically well-educated, well-meaning, and idealistic but is unable of effective action. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Superfluous Man\par \plain\f16\fs20 2. The term "Superfluous Man" was taken from "The Diary of a Superfluous Man," an 1850 work by this author of A Sportsman's Sketches and A Nest of Gentlefolk.\par \tab Answer: Ivan \plain\b\f16\fs20 Turgenev\par \plain\f16\fs20 3. Although coined by Turgenev, the type was actually introduced in this author's 1833 verse novel "Eugene Onegin". He is also known for "The Bronze Horseman" and "Boris Godunov".\par \tab Answer: Alexandr \plain\b\f16\fs20 Pushkin\plain\f16\fs20  \par \par 9. Given the Roman emperors. \par 1. Calling for the last great persecution of the Christians, this emperor's reorganization of the empire into four districts led to a resergence of the empire during his 284-305 reign.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Diocletian\plain\f16\fs20  (or Caius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus)\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 2. The first Roman emperor to profess Christianity, he fought at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge and later named for himself what would become the capital of the Eastern Empire. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Constantine\plain\f16\fs20  I the Great\par 3. A vigorous suppressor of paganism, he instituted the Nicene creed and oversaw the permanent split of the empire into East and West in 395 AD. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Theodosius \plain\f16\fs20 the Great\par \par 10. Name the following associated with a method of philosophy:\par 1.Meaning "to converse", this was originally Socrates' method of using questions to challenge positions held by others. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Dialectic\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. In his "Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Outline," this German philosopher used a dynamic form of dialectic, composed of a thesis, antithesis, and synthesis, as his method of exposition. He is also known for his The Phenomonology of Mind and The Philosophy of Right.\par \tab Answer: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich \plain\b\f16\fs20 Hegel\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Derived from the teachings of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, this philosophy did not deny the reality of mental or spiritual processes, but affirmed that ideas could arise as products and reflections of corporeal conditions. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Dialectical Materialism\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 11. Name the following works set during the middle ages, for 10 points each: \par 1. A component of Scott's Waverly series, this novel concerns a fictional saxon knight who seeks to win the love of Rowena. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Ivanhoe \plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. An Umberto Eco murder mystery, this novel centers on the monk William of Baskerville, who is investigating the killer Jorge of Burgos.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Name of the Rose\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Written by Horace Walpole, it was the first gothic novel, and revolves around Manfred, the tyrannical usurper of the titular princedom. \par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Castle of Otranto\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 12. Identify the following Data Structures, FTPE.\par 1. This is a first-in-first out data structure whose basic operations include add and delete \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 queue\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. This is a list such that each item is connected to the next. Types include Double and Circular.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Linked List\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. This is a tree in which every node has a key greater or less than the key of its parent. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Heap\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. Identify the following concerning a Baroque artist: \par 1. The byname of Michelangelo Merisi, this Italian painter scorned the traditional idealized interpretation of religious subjects, using chiaroscuro and peasant models to create realistic artworks. A famous work is The Supper at Emmaus.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Caravaggio\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. From the Italian for "obscure, this is the use of dark tonalities in artworks, and is applied almost exclusively to Caravaggio and his followers. \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Tenebrism\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Caravaggio's first commission, for the Contarelli Chapel, was a cycle of works about this Biblical character. The series included his calling and martyrdom.\par \tab Answer: St \plain\b\f16\fs20 Matthew\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. Identify each of the following American third parties: \par 1. Organized for Agrarian reforms, in 1892 James B Weaver polled more than a million votes for this party.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Populist\plain\f16\fs20  Party\par 2. Organized under Lafollette in opposition to Taft, it fielded presidential candidates in 1912 and 1924.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Progressive \plain\f16\fs20 Party\par 3. The oldest minor party still in existence, it best showings came in 1888 and 1892 with Clinton Fish and John Bidwell. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Prohibition \plain\f16\fs20 Party\par \par 15. Identify the following about economics terms.\par 1. This is the proportionate change in a dependent functional variable with respect to an independent functional value. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 elasticity\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. This English economist coined the term elasticity and applied it to demand in his seminal 1890 work "Principles of Economics".\par \tab Answer: Alfred \plain\b\f16\fs20 Marshall\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Also coined by Marshall was this term which designates the amount by which consumers value a product over and above what they pay for it. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 consumer surplus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 16. Identify the following about a novel form: \par 1. Usually a first person narrative, its name derives from the Spanish for a low brow adventurer. Examples of the form include \plain\i\f16\fs20 Lazarillo de Tormes\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 Gil Blas\plain\f16\fs20 . \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Picaresque\par \plain\f16\fs20 2. Considered to be the first English picaresque novel, this Thomas Nashe work tells of the life of Jack Wilton, a former page in the court of Henry VIII who travels as a soldier of fortune. \par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Unfortunate Traveller\plain\f16\fs20 , or the Life of Jack Wilton\par 3. Tracing the adventures of an orphan girl from her early seduction through her various love affairsand career of crime to her transportation to Virginia and her final prosperity there, this Defoe novel features the best known female picaro.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Moll Flanders\plain\i\f16\fs20 \tab \plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 17. Answer the following about an bodily organ: \par 1. This narrow, muscular tube is closed at one end, and is attached to and opens into the cecum at its other end. In humans it is a vestigial organ.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Appendix\par \plain\f16\fs20 2. The full name for the appendix includes this adjective which means "Resembling the long, thin, cylindrical shape of a worm."\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 vermiform\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Though usually prevented by the omentum, this painful infection of the abdominal cavity is most often caused by a burst appendix.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 peritonitis\plain\f16\fs20 \par \tab \par 18. Identify each of the sieges from World History\par 1. In an 1683 expedition by the Turks against the Holy Roman emperor Leopold I, Pope Innocent XI persuaded Charles of Lorraine to join a combined army under John Sobieski which eventually defeated the Turks. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Vienna\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. From March 1884 to January 1885, this modern African capital garrisoned by Charles Gordon was besieged by the Madhi. Following the slaughter of the British forces, the Mahdi abandoned the city and made Omdurman his capital. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Khartoum\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. Besieged for a month in 1453 by Ottoman sultan Murad II, this city eventually fell and Constantine XI Palaeologus was killed. \par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Constantinople\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 19. Answer the following questions about the poems of John Greenleaf Whittier, FTPE\par 10: This poem features the line \'93Of All Sad words of Tongue and Pen/The Saddest are these, \'91It might have been.\'94 It tells of the title woman, who falls in love with a judge but who doesn't marry him because their places in society are different.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Maud Muller\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 10:  Preceded by an excerpt from Agrippa\'92s Occult Philosophy and subtitled A Winter Idyll, this poem describes the members of his rural New England family during a week-long blizzard.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Snowbound\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 10: This poem describes an alleged incident that supposedly took place in Frederick, Maryland. In this poem, an old woman raises an American flag in the presence of Confederate troops, but Stonewall Jackson refuses to take punitive measures against her.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20\ul Barbara Frietchie\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 20. Given the notes in them, identify the following musical scales as major, natural minor, harmonic minor, chromatic, pentatonic, or whole-tone, FTPE.\par 1.  A  B  C  D  E  F  G#  A\tab \par Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 harmonic minor\par \plain\f16\fs20 2.  C  D  E  F# G# A# C\par Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 whole-tone\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3.  C  D  E  F  G  A  B  C    \par Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 major\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 21. Answer the following about DNA replication FTPE.\par 1. At a replication fork, these enzymes catalyze the elongation of new DNA, adding complementary bases one by one.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 DNA polymerases\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. Since DNA polymerases can only add nucleotides in the five-prime to three-prime direction, one of the two strands of the new DNA, called the lagging strand, must be synthesized in the reverse direction as a series of segments.  Identify these fragments, named for the Japanese scientist who discovered them.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 Okazaki fragments\par \plain\f16\fs20 3. This enzyme untwists the double helix at the replication fork, separating the two strands of the old DNA molecule so that replication can take place.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 helicase\plain\f16 \par \par }
