{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\margt1004\margl720\margr720\viewkind4\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \plain\b\f16\fs20 ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY TEXAS A&M A (CHRIS SEWELL AND CHRIS ROMERO)\par \par TOSSUPS\par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 1. 2,400 square miles in area, this region takes its name from the Chickasaw for "water flowing slow through the flatland, " and is bounded on the north by the Tallahatchie River and on the south by its namesake. Jefferson is the seat of this county based on Lafayette, its creator's home, and it is the site of numerous plantations, including those of the Greniers, McCaslins, and Sutpens. FTP name this county in northern Mississippi that is the setting for many of the works of William Faulkner.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Yonknapatawpha\plain\f16\fs20  County\par \par 2. The Ames cancer test uses a strain of this bacteria whose typhi and paratyphi types cause typhoid and paratyphoid fever. Rod-shaped Gram-negative bacteria, they can exist for long periods outside their hosts, often in sewage and surface water, and are best known for causing disease when occupying the intestines. FTP, what is this bacteria which can cause gastroenteritis and septicaemia and are often transmitted by unhygienic food preparation?\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Salmonella\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 3. In Rome these Greek figures were named Nona, Decuma, and Morta, and were collectively called the Parcae. In Greece, their collective name derived from the word meaning "a lot", and like the Hesperides they were considered to be the daughters of Nyx. FTP, who were these sisters named Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos who by spinning, measuring out, and cutting the thread of life controlled the destines of man?\par \tab Answer: the \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fates\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\b\f16\fs20 Moirai\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 4. This philosopher's early death left his works in an incomplete state, with much of his work compiled by his students, including the "Opus Parisiense" and the "Opus Oxoniense". Famous for his defense of Immaculate Conception and his analogy comparing man's free will to a horse capable of throwing off grace, its rider, he gained notoriety for challenging the ideas of Thomas Aquinas. FTP, who was this Scottish Fransciscan thinker known as "Doctor Subtilis", whose followers were often called "dunces"?\par \tab Answer: John \plain\b\f16\fs20 Duns Scotus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard \sl240 5. This man rose to the rank of mate while involved in the slave trade, but settled in America after killing a mutinous sailor. Late in his life he served as an admiral in the Russian navy against the Turks, but is better-known for his exploits against the British, including spiking the guns of his old home port Whitehaven and capturing the HMS Drake. FTP, who is this admiral who defeated the HMS Serapis with his ship the Bonhomme Richard, best-known for the quote "I have not yet begun to fight"?\par \tab Answer: John Paul \plain\b\f16\fs20 Jones\plain\f16\fs20  (or John Paul)\par \par \pard 6. On the night of the title character\'92s birth, his father murdered his employer Mr. Haredale, a fact mysteriously connected with his mental retardation.  He wears all green and always carries a raven named Grip in a basket on his back, and is condemned to death for his role in a riot, even though he participated in it only for the pleasure of carrying a flag and wearing a blue bow. Famous for its depictions of the Gordon Riots, FTP, identify this novel by Charles Dickens.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Barnaby Rudge\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 7. Formally, this economics term is defined as the difference between the total return from a factor of production and its supply price; that is, the minimum amount necessary to attain a factor of production.  Alfred Marshall analysed the "quasi" version, while the traditional use of this term refers to the special case of a specific factor of production which is always present in a fixed quantity and therefore has zero supply cost.  FTP, identify this term, most commonly used to refer to the price paid for use of land. \par \tab Answer:  economic \plain\f16\fs20\ul rent\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 8. This region is divided by the Eider River. After Christian IX violated the protocols of the 1852 London Convention, the Treaty of Vienna ceded it to Austria and Prussia. However, Austria lost its part after the Seven Weeks War, and following World War I, the northern part of the its northern duchy voted to be reunited with its northern neighbor.  FTP, identify this region now shared by Germany and Denmark.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Schleswig-Holstein\par \par \plain\f16\fs20 9. This law is governed by the same equations which govern Fick's Law of diffusion and Fourier's Law of heat transfer. Not holding for semiconductors, it is true for magnets under adiabatic conditions, and has as constant the ratio of the magnet's force to its flux. It was first shown experimentally in 1827, but since it was not expected in the German scientific community, its namesake was forced to resign from his high-school teaching position and lived in poverty for 25 years. FTP name this law which states that the voltage of a circuit is equal to the product of its current and impedance. \par \pard \fi720 Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Ohm's\plain\f16\fs20  Law\plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \pard \par \pard \sl240 \plain\f16\fs20 10. Famed for his skill in duels, this author was wounded during the siege of Arras in 1640, and gave up his military career to study under the philosopher Pierre Gassendi. He aroused controversy with his blasphemous play The Death of Agrippina, but Moliere admired his skill as a satirist so much he model several scenes in The Rogeries of Scapin on this man's play The Pedant Imitated. His best-known works are the Voyages to the Moon and Sun, but he is famous today mainly because of a play by Edmond Rostand. FTP, who was this author famous for his large nose?\par \tab Answer: Savinien \plain\b\f16\fs20 Cyrano de Bergerac\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 11. This man's doctrine declared the right of the Soviet Union to intervene in the affairs of other Communist countries when their governments were threatened. In 1950 he spent time in Moldavia sovietizing Romanians, and after losing and then regaining his seat on the Politburo he became President of the Praesidium if the Supreme Soviet in 1960. Although he briefly shared power with Alexei Kosygin after he engineered the ouster of Khrushchev, he soon took over full control of the government. FTP, who was this man who served as general secretary of the Soviet Union until 1982?\par \tab Answer: Leonid \plain\b\f16\fs20 Brezhnev\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \pard 12. A former schoolmate and friend of Emile Zola, this painter of The Murder was greatly influenced by the work of Manet, as seen in \plain\i\f16\fs20 A Modern Olympia \plain\f16\fs20 or\plain\i\f16\fs20  The Pasha.\plain\f16\fs20  He soon focused on brush strokes and the balance of 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional images, developing his technique of breaking down an natural object into its composite shapes, including the cylinder, sphere, and cone, a technique clearly seen in his most famous series of works. FTP name this French forerunner of cubism and painter of Mount Saint Victoire. \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\f16\fs20 \tab Answer: Paul \plain\f16\fs20\ul Cezanne\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. This celestial body is surrounded by 4 rings, the outermost of which, 1989N1R, displays non-uniformity of particle density never before observed in the solar system. Visited by Voyager 2, the mission found it to be characterized by a bright feature dubbed the \'93scooter,\'94 an atmospheric storm called the \'93Great Dark Spot\'94, and not 2 moons, as was previously believed, but rather 8, including Despina, Larissa, and Proteus. With an nearly circular orbital eccentricity of 0.009, FTP name this planet, usually the 8th in distance from the sun. \par \pard \fi720 Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Neptune\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \par 14. This group met regularly in the Apollo Room of the Devil Tavern, and were particularly noted for their frank, fanciful love poems.  Works of this group included \'93To Make Much of Time\'94, \'93Delight in Disorder\'94, \'93Aglaura\'94, \'93Brennoralt\'94, and \'93To Althea from Prison\'94.  FTP, identify this literary group whose members included Thomas Carew, Robert Herrick, John Suckling, and Richard Lovelace, named either for their association with the court of King Charles I or for their mentor.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Cavalier Poets\plain\f16\fs20   or  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Sons of Ben\plain\f16\fs20   or  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Tribe of Ben\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 15. Closely linked to the compounds theobromine and theophylline, this odorless compound occurs naturally as a white powder or as silky needles, and is characterized by a bitter taste. Scientifically called tri-methyl-xanthine, it is very soluble in hot water, and upon cooling deposits crystals of its namesake monohydrate. A member of the alkaloid group, its toxic oral dosage is 10 grams, and more than half of American adults consume over 3% of that dose daily. A cardiac stimulant and a mild diuretic having formula C8H10N4O2, FTP name this substance commonly found in guarana, mat\'e9, tea, and coffee. \par \pard \fi720 Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul caffeine\par \pard \par \plain\f16\fs20 16. Rising in the Gaumukh River, this river's source is traditionally held to be the sacred glacier Gangotori. Traversing some 1500 miles and draining one-fourth of its nation's land, it flows though the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar before emptying into the Bay of Bengal near Calcutta. Joining the Brahmaputra to form the Padma, FTP, name this sacred river of the Hindus. \par \pard \fi720 Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Ganges\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard \par 17. At the center of this city was a building symbolic of Mount Meru. Important until its capture by an army from Ayutthaya in 1431, it came to prominence in the late ninth century when King Yashovarman I moved there, and it is most famous for complexes erected by Kings Jayavarman VII and Suryavarman II.  FTP, identify this capital of the Khmer Empire noted for its Thom and Wat.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Angkor\plain\f16\fs20    \par \par 18. Famous arias in this opera include "Let her among you without fault" and "Steady! There you are! Nearly home!", while its orchestral sections are often performed separately under the title of "sea interludes." Based on a libretto by Montagu Slater, its protagonist, already under suspicion for the death of a previous apprentice, disregards the advice of Ellen Orford and takes on a second apprentice, who is also killed as they flee an angry mob, prompting the protagonist, a  Suffolk fisherman, to sink with his boat into the sea.  FTP, identify this most frequently performed English opera, composed by Benjamin Britten.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Peter Grimes\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 19. Beginning with a description of the priesthood of the \'93king of the wood,\'94 its author argues that the institution of divine kingships derived from the belief that the well being of the natural order depends upon the vitality of the king. Published in 1890, the work traces the mechanisms of thought from the modern, scientific stage back to the religious stage, and finally the magical stage. FTP identify this no longer accepted, though nonetheless revolutionary, work of comparative religion and mythology written by James Frazer. \par \tab Answer: The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Golden Bough\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 20. This novelist depicted a talented writer based on Thomas Wolfe in \plain\i\f16\fs20 Youngblood Hawke\plain\f16\fs20 , and wrote of the founding of Israel in \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Hope\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Glory.\plain\f16\fs20  An aspiring New York actress is the focus of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Marjorie Morningstar\plain\f16\fs20 , while the Henry family is described in \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Winds of War\plain\f16\fs20  and \plain\i\f16\fs20 War and Remembrance\plain\f16\fs20 .  In his best-known work, Willie Keith narrates the story of Steve Maryk\'92s rebellion against Captain Queeg on a World War II minesweeper.  FTP, identify this author of the 1952 Pulitzer Prize winning novel \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Caine Mutiny\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:  Herman \plain\f16\fs20\ul Wouk\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 21. This body of water contains the Hecla, Deer, and Black Islands, and is fed from many sources, including the Red River and a river of the same name, which means \'93muddy water\'94 in the Cree Indian language.  A remnant of glacial Lake Agassiz, it is drained by the Nelson River to the Hudson Bay.  FTP, identify this lake which ranks as the 13th largest in the world and the third largest entirely within Canada, which shares its name with the nearby capital of Manitoba.\par \tab Answer:  Lake \plain\f16\fs20\ul Winnipeg\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 22. Important members of this dynasty included Rimush, Manishtusu, Naram-Sin, and Shar-kali-sharri.  The Gutians and the Amorites brought about its downfall after about 200 years of rule. Founded circa 2350 BC and uniting much of southern Mesopotamia, FTP, identify this Sumerian dynasty begun by the 56-year reign of Sargon I.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Akkad\plain\f16\fs20 ian Dynasty\par  \par 23. This religious text was originally transmitted orally, but an effort to compile a written version culminated in the Ninth Century with the efforts of Bokhari and Moshin. It consists of six compilations, the two most important of which are the \plain\i\f16\fs20 Sahih Bukhari\plain\f16\fs20  and the \plain\i\f16\fs20 Sahih Muslim\plain\f16\fs20 .  FTP, identify this complement to the Quran containing the traditions of the sayings and doings of Muhammed, the second most important text of Islam.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Hadith\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par \plain\f16\fs20\ul \par \plain\b\f16\fs20 \page ACF FALL TOURNAMENT\par PACKET BY TEXAS A&M A (CHRIS SEWELL AND CHRIS ROMERO)\par \par BONUSES\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 1. Identify the following terms from biology FTPE.\par 1) This organic nitrogenous base is similar to purine, and gives rise to such compounds as uracil, thymine, and cytosine.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 pyrimidine\plain\f16\fs20 \par 1) DNA and RNA are made up of these compounds consisting of a purine or pyrimidine base linked to a sugar and phosphate group.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 nucleotide\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2) These repeating units of nucleotides cap both ends of a chromosome, protecting protein-coding gene sequences from being damaged during replication.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\b\f16\fs20 telomeres\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 2. Identify the following terms related to muscial notation, FTPE.\par 1. (10 points) This is the set of five horizontal, parallel lines that, with a clef, indicate the pitches of notes.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 staff\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) These are lines drawn below or above the staff to extend the range of pitches.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 leger\plain\f16\fs20  lines\par 3. (10 points) This is the collective name for symbols, such as sharps and flats, that are placed next to notes to indicate whether to raise ot lower the notes pitch.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 chromatic\plain\f16\fs20  symbols\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. FTPE, name the authors of these novels.\par 1. (10 points) The Plumed Serpent\par \tab Answer: David Herbert \plain\b\f16\fs20 Lawrence\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2. (10 points) Under the Volcano\par \tab Answer: Malcolm \plain\b\f16\fs20 Lowry\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3. (10 points) Our Man in Havana, The Heart of the Matter\par \tab Answer: Graham \plain\b\f16\fs20 Greene\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 4. Identify the following pieces of legislation FTPE.\par 1) This amendment was attached to an 1846 appropriations bill by a Pennsylvanian representative.  It was to forbid slavery in the territories that had been acquired from Mexico, but was rejected by the Senate.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Wilmot\plain\f16\fs20  Proviso\plain\f16\fs20\cf2 \par \plain\f16\fs20 2) This 1919 act provided for the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Volstead\plain\f16\fs20  Act\plain\f16\fs20\cf2 \par \plain\f16\fs20 3) Officially known as the Alien Registration Act, this 1940 law made it a crime to advocate the violent overthrow of the government.  It was used to prosecute Communists and socialists after World War II, and was upheld by the Supreme Court in \plain\i\f16\fs20 Dennis v. United States\plain\f16\fs20  but was limited by \plain\i\f16\fs20 Yates v. United States\plain\f16\fs20 .\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Smith\plain\f16\fs20  Act\par \par 5. Identify the following schools of philosophy from their descriptions FTPE.  \par 1) This school was distinguished by radical monism, or the doctrine of the One, claiming that all that exists is a static plenum of Being, and that all change, motion, and differentiation must be illusory.  Its prominent members included Parmenides and Zeno.  \par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Eleaticism\plain\f16\fs20   (accept variants, such as Eleatic School)\par 2) This philosophy emphasizes the dignity and worth of the individual, believing that all people are rational beings with the capacity for truth and goodness.  It is closely connected with the Renaissance, and its prominent members included Philip Melanchthon and Desiderius Erasmus.\par \pard \fi720 Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Humanism\plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard 3) According to this philosophy, all knowledge is based on experience, and spontaneous ideas and a priori thought are impossible.  Francis Bacon and John Locke established its foundations.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Empiricism\plain\f16\fs20   \par \par 6.  30-20-10, name the author from works.\par 1. (30 points) The story collection The Price Was High, the play The Vegetable, the short story Winter Dreams\par (20 points) The story collection All the Sad Young Men, the novel The Beautiful and the Damned, the story The Diamond as Big as the Ritz\par (10 points) The novels This Side of Paradise and Tender as the Night\par \tab Answer: F(rancis) Scott \plain\b\f16\fs20 Fitzgerald\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 7. Answer the following about diffraction FTPE.\par 1) This technology, developed by Dennis Gabor in 1947, makes use of diffraction to produce a three-dimensional photographic image.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul holography\plain\f16\fs20   (accept hologram)\par 2) In this type of diffraction, as opposed to Fraunhofer diffraction, the source or observer is relatively close to the obstructing surface.  It is also known as near-field diffraction, and is named for a French physicist who helped develop the laws of diffraction.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Fresnel\plain\f16\fs20  diffraction\par 3) This is the central, spurious disk of the image of a star formed by a telescope. \par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Airy\plain\f16\fs20  disk\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 8. Identify the following people from the life of David FTPE.\par 1) This son of David killed his brother Amnon for the rape of their sister Tamar.  He later rebelled against David, dying when his hair became tangled in an oak tree.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Absalom\par \plain\f16\fs20 2) This man commanded David\'92s army, securing David\'92s control of all Israel by defeating the forces of Israel under Abner.  \par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Joab\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3) This son of Saul befriended David and warned him that Saul was planning to kill him.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Jonathan\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 9. Identify these figures in Portuguese history FTPE.\par 1) This fifteenth century prince improved the techniques of shipbuilding and established an observatory and a school of navigation.  Under his direction, the Portuguese explored the west coast of Africa.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Henry the Navigator\plain\f16\fs20   (prompt on just Henry)\par 2) He came to power when his mother Maria I was declared insane.  When Napoleon approached Portugal in 1807, he fled to Brazil.  He later defeated a rebellion by absolutists, who supported his wife Carlota Joaquina and son Miguel, and established his son Pedro as emperor of Brazil.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul John VI\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3) In 1928, this economist accepted a position as finance minister.  Four years later, he was named prime minister, a position he would hold for thirty-six years.  He implemented his \'93New State\'94 policies, maintained neutrality in World War II, and attempted to maintain Portugal\'92s African colonies.\par \tab Answer:  Antonio de Oliveira \plain\f16\fs20\ul Salazar\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 10. Identify the following programming languages FTPE.\par 1) In 1957, IBM employee John Backus introduced this first high-level programming language, which was intended for numerical computations.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Fortran\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2) In the early 1980s, Bell Labs employee Bjarne Stroustrup created this language by adding object-oriented features to a language developed ten years earlier at Bell by Dennis Ritchie.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul C++\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3) Grace Hopper led the development of this first business-oriented language.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 COBOL\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 11. Identify the following architects who helped construct St. Peter\'92s Basilica FTPE.\par 1) Working for Julius II, this architect laid the first stone of the new basilica in 1506.  His plan called for the church to be built in the shape of a Greek cross.\par \tab Answer:  Donato \plain\f16\fs20\ul Bramante\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2) Although perhaps better known for his paintings, including the Stanza della Segnatura in Julius II\'92s papal apartments, this artist took over the basilica project upon Bramante\'92s death.  He changed the basic design from a Greek cross to a Latin cross.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Raphael\plain\f16\fs20  Sanzio\par 3) In the mid 17th Century, this sculptor and architect added a campanile, designed the elliptical piazza at the entrance to the basilica, and built the Royal Staircase. He is best-known for the sculpture The Ecstacy of St. Teresa.\par \tab Answer:  Giovanni Lorenzo \plain\f16\fs20\ul Bernini\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 12. Answer the following about Familial works of European Literature, FTPE:\par 1. In this component of the Human Comedy, we hear the interwoven tales of Eugene de Rastignac, an ambitious yet poor young man, and the title character, who sacrifices everything for his daughters. \par \pard \fi720 Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Pere Goriot\plain\f16\fs20  or \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Father Goriot\plain\f16\fs20\ul  \plain\f16\fs20 \par \pard 2. In this tragic drama by Strindberg, the main character is engaged in a struggle with his wife Laura over their daughter Bertha. \par \pard \fi720 Answer: \plain\i\f16\fs20 The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Father\plain\f16\fs20  (\plain\i\f16\fs20 Fadren\plain\f16\fs20 )\par \pard 3. Dmitri, Ivan. and Alyosha are the title figures in this Dostoyevsky novel.\par \tab Answer: The \plain\b\f16\fs20 Brothers Karamazov\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 13. Identify these people who planted and grew soldiers FTPE.\par 1) This king of Colchis plowed Ares\'92 field with fire-snorting bulls, and sowed the field with dragon\'92s teeth.  Armed men sprung up, and he killed them.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Aeetes\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2) When this man arrived in his kingdom, Aeetes forced him to perform the same feat before he would give him the Golden Fleece.  However, Aeetes\'92 daughter Medea gave him a salve to protect him from the fire and instructed him to throw a stone at the newborn warriors to make them fight among themselves.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Jason\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3) He was sent to find his sister Europa, but when he could not find her, he followed a cow and built a city where it lay down.  He sowed a field with the teeth of a dragon he had slain, and a race of fierce warriors called Sparti sprung up.  Five of the warriors helped him build the citadel of his new city, Thebes.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Cadmus\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 14. Identify the following 20th century African leaders FTPE.\par 1) In 1989, he succeeded P.W. Botha as president of South Africa.  The next year, he lifted the ban against the African National Congress and released many political prisoners, including Nelson Mandela, with whom he shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end apartheid.\par \tab Answer:  F.W. \plain\f16\fs20\ul de Klerk\plain\f16\fs20  \par 2) Jailed following the 1952 Mau Mau revolt, in 1963 he secured Kenyan independence, and was elected its first president.\par \tab Answer:  Jomo \plain\f16\fs20\ul Kenyatta\par \plain\f16\fs20 3) In 1980, he led a revolt by soldiers of his Krahn tribe and killed President William Tolbert.  He established himself as head of the People\'92s Redemption Council, and ruled Liberia until he was assassinated during a civil war in 1990.\par \tab Answer:  Samuel \plain\f16\fs20\ul Doe\plain\f16\fs20   \par \par 15. Identify the following about the lifecycle of a medium-sized star FTPE.\par 1) A star may form from a collection of interstellar gas and dust known as this.  T Tauri is a noted example.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul protostar\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2) After living for a few billion years as a Main Sequence star, a star may expand to this state after exhausting its supply of hydrogen. Characterized by low surface temperatures and large diameters, they appear above the Main Sequence line in the Hertzsprung-Russell Diagram, and in the future the Sun will evolve directly into a star of this type.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul red giant\plain\f16\fs20   (prompt on giant)\par 3) Towards the end of its life, a star may enter this state, characterized by low luminosity, a mass comparable to the Sun, and a volume comparable to the Earth, resulting in a very high density.  They appear on a diagonal parallel to but below the Main Sequence.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul white dwarf\plain\f16\fs20   (prompt on dwarf)\par \par 16. Identify the following linguists from descriptions FTPE.\par 1) The publication of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Course in General Linguistics\plain\f16\fs20 , describing the lectures of this this Swiss linguist, laid the foundations of structuralism. \tab \par \tab Answer:  Ferdinand de \plain\f16\fs20\ul Saussure\par \plain\f16\fs20 2) This American linguist is known for his transformational-generative grammar theory.  His 1957 publication of \plain\i\f16\fs20 Syntactic Structures\plain\f16\fs20  revolutionized the science.\par \tab Answer:  Noam \plain\f16\fs20\ul Chomsky\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3) This Czech linguist established the Linguistic Circle of Prague, which developed the field of phonology and was concerned with the context of language use.\par \tab Answer:  Vilem \plain\f16\fs20\ul Mathesius\plain\b\f16\fs20 \par \plain\f16\fs20 \par 17. Identify the authors of these historical works FTPE.\par  1) In the controversial 1913 work \plain\i\f16\fs20 An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States\plain\f16\fs20 , he claimed that the Founding Fathers who framed the Constitution were motivated by personal financial reasons as much as by political reasons. \par \tab Answer:  Charles \plain\f16\fs20\ul Beard\plain\f16\fs20   \par 2) This historian, whose father was also a noted historian, wrote the 1965 Pulitzer-Prize winning \plain\i\f16\fs20 A Thousand Days\plain\f16\fs20 , which examined the Kennedy administration. He is also known for The Age of Jackson.\par \tab Answer:  Arthur \plain\f16\fs20\ul Schlesinger\plain\f16\fs20 , Jr.  \par 3) In \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Significance of the\plain\i\f16\fs20\ul  \plain\i\f16\fs20 Frontier in American History\plain\f16\fs20 , he presented his theory about the effect of environment on transplanted people, and how the availability of land in the West shaped American culture.\par \tab Answer:  Frederick \plain\f16\fs20\ul Turner\plain\f16\fs20   \par \par 18. In an attempt to appease Jeopardy! fans identify these literary works whose titles are in the form of a question, FTPE.\par 1) In this play by Maxwell Anderson and Laurence Stallings, World War I soldiers Captain Flagg and Sergeant Quirt compete for the favors of a French girl.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul What Price Glory?\plain\f16\fs20 \par 2) This historical novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz set during Nero's reign deals with the conflict between pagans like Petronius and Christians like Lygia, who marries Marcus Vinicius.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Quo Vadis?\plain\f16\fs20 \par 3) This Edward Albee play tells of the bitter relationship between George and Martha.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 19. Identify these musical works about rivers FTPE.\par 1) This 1867 work by Johann Strauss celebrates the beauty of the river running through his hometown of Vienna.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\i\f16\fs20 The Beautiful \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul Blue Danube\plain\f16\fs20    (\plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 An der sch\'f6nen blauen Donau\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 )\par 2) This 1850 work by Robert Schumann was inspired by the Cathedral at Cologne, and is characterized by a rich harmony tempered by a relaxed, rustic scherzo.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 The \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 Rhenish\plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1  Symphony\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  or \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 Symphony No. 3\plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1  in E Flat Major\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 \par 3) This set of six symphonic poems was composed by Bedrich Smetana after going deaf in 1874.  The second of the symphonic poems is \plain\i\f16\fs20\cf1 The Moldau\plain\f16\fs20\cf1 , inspired by Bohemia\'92s principle river.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 My Country\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  or \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 My Fatherland\plain\f16\fs20\cf1  or \plain\i\f16\fs20\ul\cf1 Ma vlast\plain\f16\fs20 \par \par 20. FTPE, name these rules from chemistry.\par 1. (10 points) This rule states that beta elimination reactions of alcohols yield the most highly substituted alkene as the major product.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Zaitsev\plain\f16\fs20 's rule\par 2. (10 points) When a normal liquid is at the boiling point and under atmospheric pressure, the molar heat of vaporization divided by the absolute boiling temperature is a constant approximately equal to 22.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Trouton\plain\f16\fs20 's rule\par 3. (10 points) The totla number of electrons in the pi-system of aromatic compounds must equal 4n plus 2, where n is a nonnegative integer.\par \tab Answer: \plain\b\f16\fs20 Huckel\plain\f16\fs20 's rule\par \pard \sl240 \par \pard 21. Identify these Asian deserts FTPE.\par 1) Located on a plateau surrounded by mountain ranges, it is the largest Asian desert, occupying approximately 500,000 square miles in China and Mongolia.\par \tab Answer: \plain\f16\fs20\ul Gobi\plain\f16\fs20  Desert\par 2) Surrounded by the Tien Shan, Pamir, and Kunlun mountain ranges, this sandy desert covers about 100,000 square miles of barren land, mostly in China\'92s Xinjiang Province.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Takla Makan\plain\f16\fs20  Desert\par 3) This desert, bordered on the east by the Amu Darya valley, means \'93black sand\'94 in Russian, and occupies approximately seventy percent of Turkmenistan.\par \tab Answer:  \plain\f16\fs20\ul Karakum\plain\f16\fs20  Desert\plain\f16 \par \par }
