{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\f4 \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s2 \ql \sl240 \f22 \sbasedon222 \snext2 Default;}{\*\cs3 \additive \ql \sl240 \f4 \fs18 \snext3 Default SS;}{\s4 \qc \sl240 \fs28 \b \sbasedon2 \snext4 Header;}{\s5 \ql \sl240 \sbasedon2 \snext5 Body;}{\s6 \qc \sl240 \i \sbasedon2 \snext6 Footer;}{\s7 \ql \sl240 \fs20 \sbasedon2 \snext7 Footnote;}{\*\cs8 \additive \ql \sl240 \up6 \snext8 Footnote Index;}}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1440 {\headerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\headerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Tossups by Carleton for the 1998 ACF Regionals\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  In 12 AD, this man was appointed to command the Roman legion in Gaul and two legions stationed on the Rhine.  After Augustus died, his personal courage was largely responsible for placating the troops who had mutinied in Pannonnia, but who were put dow}{\f21 n after he dared them to kill him.  After a series of victories he was given supreme command over the eastern provinces, but conflicted with Piso, the governor of Syria.  FTP, name this man who would have become emperor had not Piso poisoned him, whose nam}{\f21 e is an honorific title given for his campaigns in Germany.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _GERMANICUS_ Caesar\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This great-niece of Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote her own great novel, a feminist work entitled \'d2Herland\'d3, and the essay \'d2Women and Economics\'d3.  In 1887, she entered the sanatorium of Dr. S. Weir Mitchell and her experience resulted in a feminist Gothic }{\f21 tale later published in "The Great American Short Stories."  FTP, who is this author of "The Yellow Wallpaper\'d3?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Charlotte Perkins _GILMAN_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  They form spontaneously when amino acids are in water solutions, since the amine functional group has a higher pKa than the caboxylic acid group.  Also known as an inner salt, the name for these dipolar species comes from the German for "hybrid."  FTP,}{\f21  give the term for a molecule with separate regions of positive and negative charge but which is neutral overall.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _ZWITTERION_  (zwitter-ion)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  The Romans built the town of Aquincum here, and since then a lot of water has flown beneath the Chain Bridge.  While some Roman relics such as aqueducts and amphitheaters are still visible north of the city, its cuisine stands apart from most Eastern E}{\f21 uropean fare due to its Turkish influence from the long Ottoman occupation.  The architecture of the city is primarily Hapsburg, appropriate since this city was one of the seats of that emperor's dual monarchy from 1867.  FTP, what is this trans-Danubian c}{\f21 ity, the capital of Hungary?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _BUDAPEST_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  On the left, the dead awake and assume flesh; on the right, the damned are tormented by demons with gargoyle masks and burning eyes.  Martyrs crouch below Christ, who raises hist left hand, and Saint Bartholomew holds the flaying knife and his skin, in}{\f21  which hangs a self-portrait of the artist.  FTP, identify this fresco on the altar wall of the Sistine Chapel, one of Michelangelo's later works.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _LAST JUDGMENT_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  Due to the combination of very large, wide-set eyes and a strangely yellowish skin tone, this Admiral was secretly called "the son of a Cingalese princess" by his detractors.  They had good reason to fear and distrust him, however, as he shook the foun}{\f21 dations of the Royal Navy often by ignoring old traditionalists in favor of young, technologically-adept officers like Jellicoe and Beatty.  FTP, who was this man, who served seven years as First Sea Lord, and presided over the construction of the first Dr}{\f21 eadnoughts?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  John Arbuthnot _Fisher_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7.  At this conference, Alexander Stephens, R.M.T. Hunter, and J.A. Campbell represented one side, while William Seward and his boss were on the other.  Held at the urging of Francis P. Blair, it took place on the steamboat "River Queen."  FTP, identify th}{\f21 is 1865 peace conference which took place at the same site as the great battle between the Monitor and the Merrimack.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _HAMPTON ROADS_ Conference\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8.  The father of Freyr and Freyja, he provided food and prosperity.  When the goddess Skadi was told she had to choose her husband by looking only at his feet, she chose this god, but the marriage was a rocky one, since he couldn't stand the baying of the}{\f21  wolves and Skadi hated the noise of seagulls, so each spent the greater part of the year in their own territory.  FTP, who is this Vanir god, exchanged with the Aesir to end their long struggle, Norse god of the seashore?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _NJORD_  (nyord)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9.  The operation of this instrument is based on the fact that the period of the motion of a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field is independent of the velocity of the particle.  The particles move in two semicircular metal containers known as dees}{\f21 , between which is maintained a potential difference.  Each particle is accelerated across this gap by an electrical field, thereby gaining kinetic energy and moving in  progressively larger orbits.  FTP, identify this object, invented by E. O. Lawrence, i}{\f21 mportant in creating transuranium elements.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _CYCLOTRON_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10.  Born in 1933, he grew up along the railway line that was the setting for his poem translated as "Zima Junction."  He went on to do a lot of traveling out of his native Russia, however, and published the account of his American experience as the play "}{\f21 Under the Skin of the Statue of Liberty."  FTP, identify this writer best known for his "Precocious Autobiography" and great war poem "Babi Yar."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Yevgeny Aleksandrovich _YEVTUSHENKO_ (do not accept \'d2Yevshenko\'d3)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11.  Because of this theory, which the Hecksher-Ohlin model illustrates with the two factors of capital and labor, nations always can find it profitable to trade in something.  The ricardian model only illustrates it for the factor of labor, but still show}{\f21 s that if price ratios differ from country to country, they have a basis for trade.  FTP, identify this theory that says all nations can benefit by trading goods even if they do not have an absolute advantage in production.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12.  The son of a professor of moral philosophy, he taught himself Latin and Greek by age 12 so he could read his father's books.  After receiving a doctorate in law from the University of Altdorf, he continued his career in the courts of Mainz.  In his ph}{\f21 ilosophical studies, he distinguished three cognitive faculties:  sense, imagination, and reason as well as three modes of evil:  physical, moral, and metaphysical.  FTP, name this author of Monadology, who could have used his law training in settling his }{\f21 disputes with Newton over the calculus.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Gottfried Wilhelm von _LEIBNI(T)Z_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13.  First, flood the heat-fixed smear with crystal violet for one minute.  Next, add iodine solution for 10 minutes.  Then briefly decolorize with alcohol, and finally counterstain with safranin.  After this process, the cells whose cell walls consist chi}{\f21 efly of peptidoglycan will be purple, while the negative cells appear pinkish-red.  FTP, identify this test used to classify bacteria on the basis of their cell walls.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Gram_ Stain or _Gram_Test\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  Sigismund III, a product of the Jagello dynasy and this dynasty, and his sons served as kings of Poland.  It originated with Gustav I, who led a successful uprising against the Danish and established himself as Lord Protector and then as royalty.  FTP}{\f21 , identify this Swedish dynasty, which ended four generations later with the abdication of Queen Christina.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _VASA_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15.  Although he would eventually settle down as a famer in Schenectady, New York, with the daughter of George Clinton, he brought controversy with him everywhere.  He was expelled from Russia in 1792 by Catherine the Great, and was sent over to the United}{\f21  States to obtain credit or loan repayments from the revolution.  FTP, name this man who stirred up such furor in America trying to drum up support for France in their war with England that George Wasington tried to have him sent home.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Edmond-Charles "Citizen" _GENET_ (zhen-ay)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16.  This sea's name comes from words meaning "Sea of Islands."  Formerly the world's fourth largest body of inland water, after about 1960, because the Amu Darya and Syr Darya Rivers were diverted for agriculture, its level drastically dropped.  FTP, iden}{\f21 tify this shrinking sea between Kazakstan and Uzbekistan.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _ARAL_ Sea\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17.  At Los Alamos, this man suggested the technique for detonating the implosion type of atomic bomb.  He also worked on three types of radar systems, including the microwave early warning system.  Earlier in his career, he had helped make the first measu}{\f21 rement of the magnetic moment of the neutron, and demonstrated K-electron capture by nuclei.  FTP, identify this man whose most important work perhaps came in his discovery of many resonance particles, for which he won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1968.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Luis Walter _ALVAREZ_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18.  His talent for horticulture resulted in The Book of Roses, but he is better known for writing of a more humanistic bent.  After his graduation from Harvard Law School in 1847, he journeyed from St. Louis to Fort Laramie and back again, publishing the }{\f21 results in his first great work of history.  FTP, identify the author of The Discovery of Great West and The Oregon Trail.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Francis _PARKMAN_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19.  He is the son of a reluctant feminist who completed a 1,100-page manuscript of her autobiography while they both resided in Vienna. A writer with an unusual affection for prostitutes and babysitters, his last complete and most controversial work is th}{\f21 e result of irreconcilable grief caused by the death of his son, Walt, in a car crash. FTP, name this fictional character, the protagonist of a John Irving novel.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  T. S. _GARP_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20.  The second-largest country in Africa, it was owed several million dollars by King Charles X of France. However, instead of resolving the debt, Charles X first blockaded this country, then he seized and  colonized it in 1830.  FTP, name this country, w}{\f21 hich gained its independence in 1962, and whose prominent literary figures include Mouloud Mammeri, Kateb Yacine and Albert Camus.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _ALGERIA_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 21.  His "deconstructionist" home in Santa Monica features raw-plywood, corrugated metal and chain-link fence wrapped around the outside of the house.  But despite the temptation of his trademark curves, there are no mouse ears on his designed-but-as-yet-u}{\f21 nbuilt Walt Disney Concert Hall. FTP, identify the American architect, currently in the news for the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Frank _GEHRY_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 22.  This group, who first came to be collectively named in the 1950's, challenged the conception of the traditional novel structure, particularly conventions governing plot and characterization.  They strove to create a "new realism" that would more adequ}{\f21 ately convey contemporary reality.  That goal surfaced in Alain Robbe-Grillet's assertion of separateness of external reality from man's projections of himself on reality as well as in Michel Butor's concentration on the historical and cultural aspects of }{\f21 humanity's vision of reality.  FTP, what is this literary movement, epitomized in novels like La Jalousie and La Modification?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Nouveau Roman_  or  _New Novel_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 23.  The first edition of this book appeared in 1977 with the chapter headings "the Greatest Revolution," "Intelligence, Language and the Human Mind," and finally "Mankind in Perspective."  In 1984, one of its authors "reconsidered" his earlier work, now s}{\f21 ubtitling it "In Search of What Makes Us Human."  FTP, identify the book, originally co-written by Roger Lewin and Richard Leakey.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Origins_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 24.  Leonard Bernstein said of him, "We all loved his music and rarely performed it."  As music critic for the New York Herald Tribune, his writings contributed greatly to the acceptance of contemporary classical music.  FTP, name the American composer who}{\f21 \cf5 se libretti for "The Mother of Us All" and "Four Saints in three Acts" were written by Gertrude Stein.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Virgil _THOMSON_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 26.  The authenticity of its various texts are rated on three levels:  the Sahih, the Hasan, and the Da'if.  It includes the books Sahih Bukhari and the Sunan of Ibn Maajah as well as all recollections of the first generation of Muslims.  FTP, identify thi}{\f21 \cf5 s collection of the traditions of the Prophet Muhammad.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5  Answer:  _Sunna_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 27.  The theory this man made famous was published in 1788 in a paper subtitled an "Investigation of the Laws Observable in the Composition, Dissolution and Restoration of Land Upon the Globe."  In it, he postulated that land was formed by processes of vol}{\f21 \cf5 canism, and that biblical stories were not necessary to explain the origins of the earth.  FTP, identify this Scottish geologist best known for initiating his theory of uniformitarianism before Lyell.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  James _HUTTON_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 28.  The title character sends his two sons to Salamanca to starve, hates his wife and tries to rape his daughter Beatrice. Beatrice, in turn, is in love with a priest who eventually arranges the assassination of said title character. The papal legate then}{\f21 \cf5  arrives, and at the end everyone is either disguised, disillusioned, or dead. FTP, identify this dramatic poem by Percy Shelley.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  The _CENCI_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 REPEAT! 30.  The sacred bull Apis had his stall in the great temple dedicated to this Egyptian god, which the Greeks identified with Hephaestus, since they both were master craftsmen.  Originally a local deity of Memphis, he was worshipped along with Seker}{\f21 \cf5  and Osiris.  His wife was Sekhmet and his son Nefertem.  FTP, identify this god who, with Thoth's advice, was the creator of the universe.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _PTAH_  or  _Phthah_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \page \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Bonuses by Carleton for the 1998 ACF Regionals}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Name the economics term from clues for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This situation results from technological conditions in which long-run average cost decreases as output increases.  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _ECONOMIES OF SCALE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  A measure of allocative inefficiency, it is equal to the loss in total surplus, defined as consumer surplus plus producer surplus, resulting from producing less than the efficient level of output.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _DEADWEIGHT_ Welfare _LOSS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  In Game Theory, this equilibrium is defined as the combination of strategies in a game such that neither player has any incentive to change strategies, given the strategy of his opponent.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _NASH_ Equilibrium\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  If you can't write, you might as well complain about those who can.  Identify the subject of the quote by another writer for ten points each or from a quote by the author in question.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  (10)  Ralph Waldo Emerson was at a loss to understand why people liked this\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 author's novels, "which seem to me vulgar in tone, sterile in artistic invention, imprisoned in the wretched conventions of English society, without genius, wit, or knowledge of the world."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 (5)  "It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Jane _AUSTEN_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  (10)  John Aubrey said of this author, "When he killed a calf he would do it in a high style, and make a speech."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 (5)  "Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow..."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  William _SHAKESPEARE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 (10)  Oscar Wilde said that this author "ha[d] no enemies but was intensely disliked by all his friends."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 (5)  "It is impossible for an Englishman to open his mouth, without making some other Englishman despise him."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  George Bernard _SHAW_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Identify the following musicians who composed music based on Maurice Maeterlinck's "Pelleas and Melisande."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.   It was this composer's only opera, and he actually worked on it with Maeterlinck.  Other literary influences of his included Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Edgar Allen Poe, and artistic influences included J.M.W. Turner and Claude Monet.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Claude _DEBUSSY_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Although he produced several masterful song-cycles and the opera "Penelope," this man's importance may lie less in his compositions but rather in his influence over such pupils as Ravel and Nadia Boulanger.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Gabriel-Urbain _FAURE'_ (\'d2Fow-RAY\'d3)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Pelleas and Melisande was this composer's next major task after he completed his groundbreaking "Verklarte Nacht."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Arnold _SCHOENBERG_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  The year is 1880.  You find yourself in Africa, touring the continent.  Given the name of an African territory in 1880, name the nation that controlled (either through direct rule or suzerainty) that territory.  (Note- while in some cases the actual ba}{\f21 lance of power may have been otherwise, I\'d5m looking for the country that at least nominally \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 controlled each territory.)  If no nation controlled the territory, say \'d2None.\'d3  5 points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Cape Colony\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _GREAT BRITAIN_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Sierra Leone\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _GREAT BRITAIN_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Egypt\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _TURKEY_ (the Khedive of Egypt was subject to the Ottoman ruler)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  Porto Novo\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _FRANCE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  Orange Free State\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _NONE_ (it was an independent Boer republic)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  Mozambique\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _PORTUGAL_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  Burn the heretics!  Or just identify them for fifteen points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This Syrian priest defended the presbyter Anastasius, denying that Mary could be truly called the Mother of God, and emphasized the distinction of the divine and human natures.  He was deposed at the Council of Ephesus in 431.  A few followers of his h}{\f21 eresy remain today in Iraq and India.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _NESTORIUS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Ordained as a Dominican priest in 1575, he left his order a year later after being accused of heresy.  He traveled around Europe, taught at Oxford and toulouse, and found favor with France's Henry III.  The best known philosopher of the Italian Renaiss}{\f21 ance, he was burned by the Inquisition in 1592.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Giordano _BRUNO_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  Answer the following questions about a certain well-known poem for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 15:  Complete the last line of this poem from the quotation "It matters not\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 how strait the gate/How charged with punishment the scroll,/I am the master\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 of my fate..."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _I AM THE CAPTAIN OF MY SOUL_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Now for 5 points for one or 15 for both, identify the poem and its author.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answers:  _INVICTUS_ by William Ernest _HENLEY_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7.  30-20-10, name the philosopher:\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 30:  Born in 1842, to an eccentric Seedenborgian theologian, he was apprenticed to painter William M Hunt in 1860, but the apprenticeship convinced him that he=B9d never be more than a mediocre artist.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20:  He received a medical degree from Harvard in 1869, then returned to the faculty there, eventually teaching philosophy by 1879.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10:  Works include \'d2The Varieties of Religious Experience\'d3, \'d2A Pluralistic Universe\'d3, and \'d2Pragmatism\'d3.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _WILLIAM JAMES_ (prompt on \'d2James\'d3)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8.  Identify these eponymous reagents and reactions from organic chemistry\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5-10-15.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  These organomagnesium compounds react with carbonyls to form alcohols.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _GRIGNARD_ reagents\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  In this reaction, a conjugated diene adds to an alkene to yield cyclohexene derivatives.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _DIELS-ALDER_ reaction\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15:  The reaction occurs when a phosphorus ylide attacks a carbonyl to form\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 an alkene.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _WITTIG_ reaction or synthesis\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9.  Identify the following rulers of the Mogul Empire of India for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  This man loved building monuments, including many mosques, the Red Fort, and the Taj Mahal.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _SHAH JAHAN_  or  Prince _KHURRAM_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  One of the most religiously tolerant and enlightened emperors, he expanded India over most of the subcontinent, including Bengal and Kashmir. He was also the promulgator of the mystic faith Din-I Ilahi, Persian for "Divine Faith."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Abu-Ul-Fath Jalal-Ud-Din Muhammad _AKBAR_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This third son of Shah JaHan brought the empire to its greatest extent.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _AURANGZEB_  or  _ALAMGIR_  (prompt on Muhi-Ud-Din _MUHAMMAD_)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10.  Identify these artists that all have something in common from works on a 10-5 basis.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 10:  \'d2Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan\'d3 and \'d2Mr. And Mrs. Joseph Andrews\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 5:  \'d2The Blue Boy\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Thomas _GAINSBOROUGH_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  Max Schmitt in a Single Scull\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 5:  The Agnew Clinic\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Thomas _EAKINS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 10:  The Voyage of Life\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 5:  The Oxbow\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Thomas _COLE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11.  Identify these two Polish winners of the Nobel Prize for literature on a 15-10 basis.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 15:  This historical novelist wrote about 17th century Poland, most notably in the novel With Fire and Sword.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 10:  He won in 1905 and is most known for the novel Quo Vadis?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Henryk _SIENKIEWICZ_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 15: After World War II, he was appointed a diplomat, but disliked Communism and fled to the United States.  His first major work was The Captive Mind.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 10:  He won the prize in 1980 and is known for his poetry including the collection Bells in Winter.  He wrote a History of Polish Literature and worked on a Polish translation of the Bible.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Czeslaw _MILOSZ_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12.  Identify these players in the exploits of Zeus from descriptions in Hesiod's Theogony for 10 points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Zeus made her his first wife, but "when she was about to bear the owl-eyed Athena, he deceived her and put her down in his belly."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _METIS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Zeus lay with her "nine nights apart from the immortals and after a year she bore nine like-minded daughters." -- that is, the Muses.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _MNEMOSYNE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This daughter of Okeanos "bore to Zeus the three Charites," or Graces.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _EURYNOME_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13.  For ten points each, identify the following wealthy Romans.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This man made his fortune sending his real estate buyers on the heels of his fire brigade.  He allegedly died when his enemies poured molten gold down his throat.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _CRASSUS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This man was both an able financial administrator and general, as shown when Bithynia was invaded in 74 by Mithradates.  He commanded the battle and then retired to a life of splendid luxury.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Lucius Lucinius _LUCULLUS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This man was a great patron of the arts and supported such writers as Virgil and Horace, as well as hobnobbing with Augustus.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Gaius (Clinius) _MAECENAS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  Identify the John Marshall Supreme Court case from clues for the states number of points.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5: This case was brought over the Yazoo land fraud and marked the first time a state law was struck down as being unconstitutional.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _FLETCHER V. PECK_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  Two brothers had been sued in this case because they were illegally selling lottery tickets; the case reaffirmed the Court's right to review state court judgments in cases involving federal law.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _COHENS V. VIRGINIA_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15:  This 1832 case was brought by Cherokee leaders who had been forced to sell their land to the state.  Andrew jackson retorted to the decision, "John Marhsall has made his decision, now let him enforce it!"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _WORCESTER V. GEORGIA_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  Identify these anthropological terms regarding kinship and marriage from definitions, 5-10-15.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  This term refers to the practice of marrying outside one's group or clan.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _EXOGAMY_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  This term refers to the pattern of residence after marriage where the\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 newlywed couple lives with the bride's parents' household.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _MATRILOCAL_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15:  This custom holds that a widow marries a brother of her deceased husband\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _LEVIRATE_ marriage\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15.  30-20-10:  Identify the book of the Bible from verses.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 30:  Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, before the days of trouble come.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20:  "Meaningless! Meaningless!" says the Teacher. "Everything is meaningless!"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10:  There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under heaven:  a time to be born and a time to die.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _ECCLESIASTES_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16.  For the stated number of points, identify the formulation of mechanics from a description.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  Based upon forces, this type of classical mechanics centers around the\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 law that force equals the derivative of momentum by time.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _NEWTONIAN_ mechanics\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This type of mechanics uses the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian operator to solve the time-dependent Shrodinger equation.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _QUANTUM_ mechanics\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Another classical mechanical formulation, this used the quantity kinetic energy minus potential energy and a result based upon the calculus of variations.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _LA GRANGIAN_ mechanics\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17.  Given two opposing commanders, name the Civil War battle for five points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Irvin McDowell (U) and P.G.T. Beauregard (C) \tab \tab \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _FIRST BULL RUN_  or  _FIRST MANASSAS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Ulysses Grant (U) and Sidney Johnston (C) \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _SHILOH_  or  _PITTSBURG LANDING_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  William Rosecrans (U) and Braxton Bragg (C)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _CHICKAMAUGA_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  Ambrose Burnside (U) and Robert E. Lee (C)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _FREDERICKSBURG_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  Joseph Hooker (U) and Lee and Stonewall Jackson (C)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _CHANCELLORSVILLE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  George Meade (U) and Lee and George Pickett (C)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _GETTYSBURG_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18.  Given the English title of an Akiro Kurosawa film, identify the work of Western literature on which it is based for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  "Throne of Blood" or "The Castle of the Spider's Web"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _MACBETH_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  "Ran" or "Chaos"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _KING LEAR_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  "The Idiot"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _IDIOT_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19.  30-20-10-5:  identify the author from works.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 30:  \'d2The Man Within\'d3 and \'d2The Comedians\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20:  \'d2The Heart of the Matter\'d3 and \'d2The End of the Affair\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10:  \'d2Brighton Rock\'d3 and \'d2Our Man in Havana\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5: \'d2The Power and the Glory\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Graham Henry _GREENE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20.  Given a brief description, identify the term relating to evolutionary processes for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This is the exchange of genes between different species or between different populations of the same species caused by migration following breeding.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _GENE FLOW_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This refers to changes in gene frequency from generation to generation in a small population as a result of random processes.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _GENETIC DRIFT_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This type of genetic drift refers specifically to random changes in allele frequencies resulting from the establishment of a population by a very small number of individuals.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _FOUNDER EFFECT_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 21.  Identify the following poems by John Donne from selections, 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  "So let us melt, and make no noise / No tear-floods, nor sigh-tempests move"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _A VALEDICTION, FORBIDDING MOURNING_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  "Cruel and sudden, hast thou since / Purpled thy nail in blood of innocence?"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _FLEA_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  "For love all love of other sights controls / And makes one little room an everywhere"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _GOOD MORROW_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 22.  Identify the sculptors from pairs of their works for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Mary Magdalene and the Zuccone\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _DONATELLO_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  The Age of Bronze and St. John the Baptist Preaching\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Auguste _RODIN_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Endless Column and Sleeping Muse\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Constantin _BRANCUSI_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 23.  Identify the South Pacific nation from a description of its flag for ten points or from its capital for five.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 10:  The flag of this nation depicts a frigate bird flying over the sea before the rising sun.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 5:  Its capital is Bairiki.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _KIRIBATI_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  The background of this flag is divided diagonally into black and red triangles; a yellow bird of paradise appears in the red triangle, and the Southern Cross is depicted in the black area.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 5:  Its capital is Port Moresby.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _PAPUA NEW GUINEA_  (not New Guinea)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 10:  In this flag, a black triangle points out from the hoist side, with a red trapezoid on top and a green trapezoid on the bottom.  Inside the black triangle is a boar's tusk with two fern fronds.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21      For 5:  The capital city is Port Vila\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _VANUATU_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 [The following bonuses edited out for difficulty]\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 24.  Identify the following authors who in addition to their other achievements have written biographies of Henry James.  10 points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.    The best-known of James' biographers, he also wrote about James Joyce and Willa Cather.  His book "Telling Lives" defends the biography format.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Leon _EDEL_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  In addition to the work on James, "Reflections of a Jacobite," he wrote such novels as "The Rector of Justin," "The Winthrop Covenant," and "Portrait in Brownstone," as well as the short story collection "Powers of Attorney."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Louis _AUCHINCLOSS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  In addition to her critical analysis of James, she wrote the novels "The Judge" and "The Birds Fall Down."  She is perhaps best known for her reports on the Nuremberg trials.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Dame Rebecca WEST  or  Cicily Isabel _ANDREWS_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 25.  Identify these types of reflective telescopes from a brief description for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.    The light strikes a parabolic mirror and is reflected back to a smaller flat mirror inclined at a 45-degree angle, which sends the image to an eyepiece on the side of the tube.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _NEWTONIAN_ reflector\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.   The secondary mirror is convex and the light is reflected back down the tube through a hole in the main mirror.  In some cases there is no perforation in the main mirror, and a second flat mirror is introduced to direct the rays to the side of the tub}{\f21 \cf5 e.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _CASSEGRAIN_ reflector\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.   This arrangement includes a secondary mirror and a further rotatable mirror on the axis of the telescope.  A stationary image is formed and the observer need not move as the telescope rotates.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _COUDI_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 26.  Identify the following psychiatrists who incorporated some type of hypnosis into their methods, for ten points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  This man put his patients into trances to restore the natural flow of bodily fluids that had been affected by "animal magnetism."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Franz Anton _MESMER_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  A pharmacist by day, he thought the ticket to success was  to repeat the formula "Every day, and in every way, I am becoming better and better."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: Emile _COUE'_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  This British surgeon actually coined the term "hypnosis" in his 1843 book "Neurypnology."\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  James _BRAID_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 27.  For ten points each, given the name of its highest peak, name the European country.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  Mt. Korab\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _ALBANIA_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  Gerlachovsky Stit or Mt. Gerlach\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _SLOVAKIA_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  Mt. Rysy\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _POLAND_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 28.  Answer these questions about nerves in the human body for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  For 5:  This longest nerve of the body emerges from the lumbar plexus and ennervates the long and foot muscles.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _SCIATIC_ nerve\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  For 10:  This is the nerve that causes the tingling pain when you whack your funny bone.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _ULNAR_ nerve\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  For 15: This tenth cranial nerve carries sensory and autonomic pathways running between the medulla and the thoracic and upper abdominal viscera.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _VAGUS_ nerve}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 29.  Identify these events from the struggle for Greek independence, 10 points each. \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  This treaty of 1827 formalized France's compliance with the Protocol of St. Petersburg, and added some important clauses, like provisions for formal recognition of Greek independence should Turkey refuse mediation. \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Treaty of _LONDON_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  This battle, fought in the ancient Pylos between British, French and Russian naval forces on one side and the Egyptian fleet on the other, effectively saved Greece at its most critical moment because the destruction of the Egyptian fleet meant that the}{\f21 \cf5  Turkish forces could not touch the island strongholds of the Greek cause.  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  the Battle of _NAVARINO_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  In 1829, this final treaty imposed the Treaty of London on Turkey and effectively achieved Greek independence.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Treaty of _ADRIANOPLE_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \page \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 Carleton Tossup Distribution\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 Germanicus\tab hist1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 gilman\tab lit1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 zwitterion\tab sci1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 budapest\tab hist2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 last judgment\tab art1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 churchill\tab hist3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 hampton roads conf.\tab hist4\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 njord\tab myth1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 cyclotron\tab sci2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 yevtushenko\tab lit2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 comparative adv.\tab soc1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 liebnitz\tab phil1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 thomson\tab mus1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 hutton\tab sci3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 genet\tab hist5\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 aral sea\tab geog1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 alvarez\tab sci4\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 parkman\tab lit3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 garp\tab lit4\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 algeria\tab geog2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 Carleton Bonus Distribution\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 economics terms\tab soc1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 brit lit quotes\tab lit1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 pelleas+melis. comp.\tab mus1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 african colonial geog\tab geog/hist1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 heretics\tab rel1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 invictus, henley\tab lit2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 william james\tab phil1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 reagents + reactions\tab sci1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 mogul india\tab hist2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 painters named tom\tab art1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 polish nobel lit\tab lit3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 zeus\'d5 squeezes\tab myth1\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 wealthy romans\tab hist3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 supreme court cases\tab hist4\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 types of marriage\tab soc2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 ecclesiastes\tab rel2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 types of mechanics\tab sci2\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 civil war battles\tab hist5\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 kurosawa lit\tab lit4\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 30-20-10 greene\tab lit5\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 gene drift, etc.\tab sci3\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx2520 {\f21 \par 
}}