{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}{\f412\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f413\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f415\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f416\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f417\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 
\snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f4 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{\s20\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator The Weiner Family}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo11\dy25\hr15\min24}{\revtim\yr1999\mo11\dy25\hr15\min32}{\version2}{\edmins7}{\nofpages15}{\nofwords5634}{\nofchars32119}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws39444}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\sl360\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs36 Tossups by Dartmouth for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4 
\par 1. In 1994 this Nobel Prize winning author was stabbed in the neck outside his house and the injury now hampers his ability to write. Ironically, the period when he was most in danger of being attacked was more than 30 years earlier when in 1959 the seria
l
ized publication of "Children of Gebelawi" caused an uproar akin to that over Rushdie's "Satanic Verses", in his staunchly Islamic homeland. He  won the 1988 Nobel Prize for "form(ing) an Arabic narrative art that applies to all mankind."  FTP name this a
uthor, responsible for writing the Cairo Trilogy.
\par Answer:  Naguib_Mahfouz_
\par 
\par 2. The Kaziranga national park can be found along this river which drains an area of around 361,000 sq. miles. Its ancient Greek name was Dyardanes or Oedanes. Arising in a Himalaya
n glacier, it is known as the Tsangpo in Tibet. As it nears its delta, this river takes on the name of the Jamuna. In the Northeastern states of India, its name changes to the Dihang. FTP name this South Asian river which joins the Ganges before emptying 
into the Bay of Bengal, and whose official name is derived from the Sanskrit for the creator in the Hindu trinity.
\par Answer:  _Brahmaputra_
\par 
\par 3. After graduating last in his class in 1846 from the West Point, N.Y, he served with distinction in the Mexican War.
 After entering the Confederate Army, he was involved at the Battle of Fredericksburg, and was divisional commander under Lee throughout the 1864 Virginia Campaign. After the war he worked in insurance. FTP, name this man best known for his actions on the
 third day of Gettysburg, in which he led the greatest infantry charge in American history -- 15,000 troops in a frontal assault -- against Union forces on Cemetary Ridge.
\par Answer:  George Edward _Pickett_
\par 
\par 4. Towards the end of this dynasty's reign, its kin
gs were called "les rois faineants" (FAY-NAY-ON), or the tired kings, because they did essentially nothing while their power passed into other hands. It ruled from AD 481 to 751, and at its height its territory included all of present day France and Germa
n
y. After the reign of Dagobert I, authority became decentralized and gradually passed into the hands of noble families, most notable of which were the Carolingians. FTP name this dynasty, whose first king was Clovis, and which was named after Merovech, th
e chief of the Salian Franks.
\par Answer:  _Merovingian_ dynasty
\par 
\par 5. This saint's feast day is on May 27. Living from A.D. 672 to 735, he worked from the monasteries of Monkwearmouth and Jarrow in Northumbria. In addition to works on grammar, theology, and hist
ory, he wrote a summary of the works of Roman Naturalists. On his deathbed he dictated a translation on the Gospel of St John into Anglo-Saxon. It took as long as 1899 for this man to be formally canonized and be recognized as a doctor of the church, but 
FTP name this man whom the Council of Aachen rendered venerable long before that, in 836.
\par Answer:  The venerable _Bede_
\par 
\par 6. His numerous innovations include thermal underwear, a drip coffee-pot, the smokeless chimney, the kitchen oven, and central heating. 
This American scientist and innovator from Woburn, Massachusetts, also has a brand of baking powder named after him. FTP, name this man, who was suspected of spying for the British during the Revolutionary war, fled America, and is today best remembered f
or disproving the caloric theory of heat when he observed that heat was generated due to friction while drilling cannons, and, furthermore, making the association of heat with motion.
\par Answer:  Count _Rumford_ or Benjamin _Thompson_
\par 
\par 7. This term expresses the moral law as ultimately enacted by reason and demanding obedience from mere respect for reason. Therefore the first fundamental principle of morality is: "Let the law be the sole ground or motive of thy will." The law is capable
 
of inspiring respect by reason of its universality and necessity, and hence the general formula of the moral law becomes: "Act so that the maxim [determining motive of the will] may be capable of becoming a universal law for all rational beings." FTP, nam
e this theory expounded by Immanuel Kant in the Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals.
\par Answer:  _Categorical Imperative_
\par 
\par 8. Although it disappeared in the West by the 6th century, this religion's doctrines reappeared in the teachings of the Albigenses a
nd other heretical sects during the middle ages. It taught that salvation could be gained by liberating the seed of light, the soul from the material darkness of the body.  Its prophet considered his task to be completing the incomplete religions left by 
t
he earlier prophets, Zoroaster, Christ, and the Buddha. Christianity always regarded this religion as a mere heretical sect, with Justinian issuing an edict against it. FTP name this religion which was founded in Babylonia in the 3rd century A.D. by a Per
sian called Mani.
\par Answer:  _Manichaeism_
\par 
\par 9. Flanders and Ouisa Kitteredge are art dealers, who are having a South African friend over for dinner, when Paul bursts in with a stab wound, explaining that he's their son's friend. The scene shifts to Harvard, M
IT and Dartmouth looking for Paul's suddence emergence and his true identity. There are numerous references to art, especially a double-sided Kandinsky which rotates to show the duality of man's nature. FTP, name this play by John Guare, loosely based on 
a true story, in which a young man tries to enter society. 
\par Answer:  _Six Degrees of Separation_
\par 
\par 10. It was commissioned in the summer of 1791 by Count Franz Walsegg-Stuppach, who wanted it to remember his wife by. He first conducted it, and it was known a
s his piece for almost thirty years. The composer died shorty after undertaking the task, so Franz Sussmayr, an earlier pupil, had to complete most of the work. Written in the solemn key of Dminor, some of the more famous components are Dies irae, Confuta
tus and Lacrimosa. FTP, name the composer and the famous work.
\par Answer:  _Mozart's Requiem_
\par 
\par 11. Their name could be derived from the Old Norse for great grandmother. They tell the story of the creation of the world as the cow Audhumbla licked salt off an ic
e mass to create the progenitor of Odin and the other Norse gods. One of these books was written around 1056 by Saemund Sigfusson, the other in the 1200's by Snorri Sturluson. FTP what is the collective name used for these two Icelandic volumes which form
 the most authoritive source of old Norse mythology?
\par Answer:  _Eddas_
\par 
\par 12. P.G. Wodehouse said that this playwright "succeeded in shocking Broadway so that the sidewalks were filled with blushing ticket-speculators," and at one point only Shaw had more play
s running at the same time in London.  He is best remembered, however, for his novels. His favorite locales include rural and urban England, Singapore, Malaysia, the Hawaiian and other Pacific islands, as well as Spain, France, and the United States. Name
 this writer whose novels include The Painted Veil, The Moon and Six Pence, Cakes and Ale, and Of Human Bondage. 
\par Answer:  William Somerset _Maugham_
\par }{\f4\cf6 
\par }{\f4 13. Henry Adams insinuated that "not one would dare to defend it on its merits now." Supported by the Fede
ralists and derided by the Republicans, this treaty became extremely unpopular and the man for whom it was named was burned in effigy. It's provisions included a definite date for British troop withdrawal, to compensate for its depredations against Americ
a
n shipping; to end discrimination against American commerce; and to grant the U.S. trading privileges in England and the British East Indies.FTP, what is this 1794 Treaty, signed by Lord Grenville and named for the a negotiator at the Treaty of Paris and 
the first Supreme Court Justice.
\par Answer:  _Jay's Treaty_
\par 
\par 14. The first person to ascend in a hydrogen balloon, he was concerned as to how the temperature of the gas filling the balloon would affect its size and shape.  Ballooning was only a hobby, however,
 for this clerk in the French Ministry of Finance and inventor of the hydrometer and the reflecting goniometer.  Strangely enough, he was elected to the Academie des Sciences in 1795 not for his work in physics or chemistry, but for his little known mathe
matical theses on number theory.  FTP name this French physicist most famous for the chemical law bearing his name, which states that the volume of an ideal gas is directly proportional to its temperature in Kelvin.
\par Answer:  Jacques _Charles_
\par }{\f4\cf6 
\par }{\f4 15. This dele
gate to the South Carolina Provincial Congress was commissioned a captain in the state militia in 1775, based on his service record in the Cherokee Wars.  After escaping the British after the surrender of Charleston, he formed his band of local guerillas,
 
and began a series of routs of the British regulars, culminating in the daring rescue of encircled patriots at Parker's Ferry.  His unit was able to succeed by using their knowledge of backwoods and wetlands to prepare ambushes and evade pursuers.  FTP, n
ame this soldier, nicknamed the Swamp Fox for his use of elusive tactics.
\par Answer:  Francis _Marion_
\par 
\par 16. The major text surviving in this language is a fragmented translation of the Bible by Bishop Ulfilas. He also devised the a
lphabet for this language, its 27 characters consisting of 25 modified Greek symbols, and 2 runes. It is the only East Germanic language for which we have any written evidence, and between the 7th and 9th centuries was replaced in parts of  Germany and It
alt by Romance and other Germanic languages. FTP name this language, once spoken by the Ostrogoths of Germany and Italy, and the Visigoths of Eastern Europe, whose name can also be applied to the novel Frankenstein.
\par Answer:  _Gothic_
\par 
\par 17. Oscar Wilde posite
d in a short story that he was the boy actor for whom Shakespeare wrote his greatest roles. Based on internal evidence in the sonnets Wilde came up with Willie Hughes as a possible name for him, although it is more commonly held that if indeed he existed 
h
e was of far nobler origins. Possible candidates are the Earl of Southampton, and the Earl of Pembroke, although some maintain that Shakespeare himself is the man who is alluded to in the dedication of the sonnets. FTP, name this person, "the onlie begett
er" of Shakepseare's sonnets, who is identified only by his initials.
\par Answer:  _Mr. W.H._
\par 
\par 18. Creedence Clearwater Revival based their song "Bad Mood Rising" upon the movie based on this story. The main character is but a poor farmer whose crops won't grow
, and who is beset on all sides by misfortune. In a fit of rage he swears that he'll give it up to the devil, who promptly  shows up and makes him sign a contract, the former a Newhampshireman who won't take back what he's said. He rises to town selectmen
t
 and state representative before the devil decides to claim his property. Not knowing what to do, he travels down to Marshfield to visit the Secretary of State, who is busy writing speeches against John C. Calhoun and tending the farm. The former Senator 
argues in front of an American jury to defend Jabez Stone's soul and wins in, FTP, what Steven Benet classic?
\par Answer:  The _Devil and Daniel Webster_
\par 
\par 19. This substance stops cell mitosis by catalyzing the polymerization reaction between alpha and beta tub
ulin and inhibiting the reverse reaction, thus not allowing the formation of a cell plate and kinetochore microtubules.  Therapy with this drug has given hope of full recovery to those with ovarian and testicular cancer, two types that were previously alm
o
st untreatable.  In 1995 two independent groups of researchers completed total laboratory synthesis of themolecules, quieting the concerns of environmentalists about deforestation of old growth forests.  FAQTP, name this powerful anti-cancer drug, first d
erived from the bark and needles of the Pacific Yew, Taxus brevifolia.
\par Answer:  _Taxol_
\par 
\par 20. This element occurs in various rare earth minerals, usually associated with yttrium. It is the rarest of the rare earths, and ranks 59th in the order of abundance o
f the elements in the earth's crust. A radioactive isotope with a half life of 30 billion years is used to determine the age of meteorites in relation to the earth's age. FTP, name this silvery white metal with atomic number 71, which was discovered in 19
07 by the chemist Georges Urbain, and was named for the ancient name of Paris.
\par Answer:  _Lutetium_
\par 
\par 21. One of these mammals, named Airavat, was the Hindu god Indra's mount. They have been domesticated since 2000 BC, and have also been used in war. Alexande
r's armies faced them when fighting in India. The modern equestrian sport of tent pegging probably comes from the practise of striking their toe nails while riding by; the excruciating pain that results is one of the only ways of felling these battle tank
s of yore. FTP name this animal, which belongs to the order proboscidea, and whose two speices are Loxodonta africana and Elephas maximus.
\par Answer:  _Elephant_
\par 
\par 22. The tiny Duchy of Grand Fenwick is facing economic ruin, so Prime Minister Count Mountjoy sen
ds a party led by the incompetent Tully Bascombe to invade the US, expecting the unsuccessful invasion to bring US postwar aid. But Tully lands in New York, finds no opposition, and comes home with the newly developed, lethal Q-bomb and its developer Dr. 
Kokintz. This leads to a shift in the balance of world power in FTP what 1959 film starring Peter Sellers in three roles?
\par Answer:  _The Mouse that Roared_
\par 
\par 23. One ancient city bearing this name was situated in Lydia and was founded in the 2nd century BC. T
he site of the ancient city is occupied by the modern city Alasehir, Turkey. Another city with the same name was originally the ancient Rabbath Ammon, the capital of the Ammonites, in Palestine. The site is near modern Amman. FTP give the shared name whic
h was bestowed on the second of these cities when it was rebuilt by the Egyptian king Ptolemy Philadelphus.
\par Answer:  _Philadelphia_
\par 
\par 25. Last August 300 villagers were massacred in Rais, and just as Ramadan was beginning this last December an attack left 41
2 dead. It is a civil war that is responsible for killing upwards of 75,000 people in the last 6 years. Most of slaughter has been confined to the Miditja plain, an area below the Atlas mountains in FTP what North African country where the Armed Islamic G
roup is trying to bring down the military backed government?
\par Answer:  _Algeria_
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4\cf6 
1. The axes can represent different factors of production, and the curves represent the tradeoff between them. These economic curves are similar to indifference curves, but are drawn in production space rather than consumption space. Unlike indifference c
u
rves which are not associated with any specific amount of utility, each of these curves represents a certain level of output for the firm. FTP, what are these curves, thus named because they link points of equal quanitity of production, much like isobars 
connect points of equal pressure.
\par Answer:  _Isoquants_}{\f4 
\par }{\f4\cf6 
\par 6. After Georges Seurat submitted this painting to the Salon, in 1884, it was rejected at first, and when shown later in the year, it was relegated to the refreshment hall. It was the first major paint
ing that captured the scenery of the Seine river, in Paris' north-western suburb of Asnieres, a location where artists like Van Gogh and Signac would later paint famous canvases. Seurat himself painted A Sunday on the Island of La Grand Jatte from a site 
just across the river from where he painted this painting, which now resides at the National Gallery in London. FTP name this large canvas which depicts a group of men and boys relaxing and bathing on the banks of the Seine near Asnieres.
\par Answer:  _Bathers_at Asnieres}{\f4 
\par 
\par }{\f4\cf6 15. Among his literary works are three "lives" or fictional autobiographies. His talent at music, however, is what allowed him to enter the Castilian Province, where he spent most of his life. One significant interlude consisted of the several
 years he spent at  a Benedictine monastery, where he was 
befriended by Father Jacobus, who introduced him to the study of history. He ultimately left Castilia and became tutor to Tito, son of his old friend, Plinio Designori, dying soon after in a swimmin
g race. Because of his elevated position, however, the repercussions of his defection were felt throughout Castilia, and the fusion between the sterile literacy of this province and the vibrancy of the outside world may eventually have occurred. Name this
 man, or the title he held for many years as the master of the Glass Bead Game.
\par Answer:  _Magister Ludi_ or Joseph _Knecht_}{\f4 
\par 
\par }{\f4\cf6 17. LaRochefocauld was a close friend of hers, as was Fouquet, to whom she was faithful to the very end. Her birth would have assure
d her a place close to the Louis XIV, but her position was somewhat compromised by her cousin Rabutin, who was imprisoned in the Bastille, and later exiled. However, at one point the King himself courted her daughter Francoise, who eventually married the 
M
arquis de Grignan. Name this woman, born Marie Rabutin, who was left a young widow at the death of her husband in a duel, and is best known for her epistolary accounts of life in the 15th century, descibing royal interviews, fashionable society, country l
andscapes, and the suicide of a cook because of his wounded pride.
\par Answer:  Madame or Marquise _de Sevigne_}{\f4 
\par 
\par }{\f4\cf6 19. Often called the missing link between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, this unicellular protist has only two distinct organelles, both of which are n
uclei.  This organism has no mitochondria, and cannot produce the enzyme oxygenase that allows all other eukaryotes to live in aerobic environments, and thus must undergo metabolism solely through glycolysis, making t the only eukaryote unable to produce 
ATP by oxidative phosphorolation. FTP, name this common intestinal parasite, whose DNA sequence contains genes that code for more prokaryotic than eucaryotic proteins.
\par Answer:  _Giardia_ intestinalis  (also accept _Giardia_ lamblia)}{\f4 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\sl360\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4 \page }{\f4\fs36 Bonuses by Dartmouth for the 1998 ACF Regionals}{\f4 
\par }\pard \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4 
\par 1. Now answer the following about that great epic of the dark ages, Beowulf.  10 each:
\par 1.  Beowulf is a thane of the Geat (Yay-at) king. What is this king's name?
\par Answer:  _Hygelac_
\par 2.  The epic starts with the description of the sea burial of a Danish king, what was his name?
\par Answer:  _Scyld Scefing_(shilde shefing)
\par 3.  Finally, Beowulf contains a certain metaphorical compound of the following form. For instance "ocean" is referred to as "whale's road". What is the name of this kind of construct, rife in Anglo Saxon poetry?
\par Answer:  _kenning_
\par 
\par 2. Name the 19th century French intellectual or artistic figures, given clues about their lives, 10 pts. each.
\par 1.  Best known for his social an
d political caricatures, this man was also a sculptor and lithographer. He was associated with the journals La Caricature, and  Le Charivari. His more than 3000 extant lithographs are supposed to be the finest examples of his work. 
\par Answer:  Honore _Daumier_
\par 2  Born in 1799, this man's life was dominated by his mother who outlived him. In 1821 he met Laure de Berny his longtime mistress who was 22 years his senior. Moving from Tours to a Paris garret in 1814, he embarked on the regimen he was to follow for 
the rest of his life: 16 hours workdays, and the consumption of immense amounts of coffee.
\par Answer:  Honore de _Balzac_
\par 3.  The son of a Paris policeman, he enrolled in the Ecole Imperiale Speciale de Dessin et de Mathematiques and was initially an apperent
ice in the studios of major sculptors of the day. During a trip to Italy in 1875-76 he studied the masters and shortly thereafter produced his first masterwork, the Vanquished.
\par Answer:  Auguste_Rodin_
\par 
\par 3. Name the river from a list of cities along its banks, 10 pts. each.
\par 1.  Dresden, Magdeburg, Hamburg, Schonebeck, and Aken.
\par Answer:  _Elbe_
\par 2.  Tver, Rybinsk, Yaroslavl, Samara, Nizhny Novgorod (Gorky), Kazan, Saratov, and Astrakhan.
\par Answer:  _Volga_
\par 3.  Grimsby and Hull are on this river formed by the junction of the Trent and the Ouse.
\par Answer:  _Humber_
\par 
\par 4. Answer the following about the epic of Gilgamesh.
\par 1.  Gilgamesh is the ruler of this city state, believed to lie 150 miles southeast of Baghdad.
\par Answer:  _Uruk_ or _Erech_
\par 2.  After the people of Uruk ask the gods to create an equal to Gilgamesh to give him company. The gods create this man who is as strong and intelligent as Gilgamesh is, but lives in the wilds, not the city.
\par Answer:  _Enkidu_
\par 3.  Gilgamesh finds the plant that contains the seed of immortality, but while carrying it home, this animal swallows the plant, thus denying man immortality.
\par Answer:  _Serpent_or _snake_
\par 
\par 5.  Test your knowledge of Zoroastrianism, 10 pts. each.
\par 1. Zoroastrian philosophy and mythology is thought to have been derived from these ancient texts of Aryan India.
\par Answer:  _Vedas_
\par 2. This was the name given to the supreme deity of the Zoroastrians, the wise lord who was the sole creator of the world. His name was later corrupted to Ormazd.
\par Answer:  _Ahura Mazda_
\par 3.  Around the 10th century Zoroastrians emigrated en masse to India, due to Islamic persecution. What more colloquial name is the Indian Zoroastrian community known as?
\par Answer:  _Parsis_
\par 
\par 6. FTP each, name these memorable retainers:
\par 1. He lives with his employer in Flat 3 A, Berkeley Mansions. Name this gentleman's personal gentleman, described as the keeper of Betram Wilberforce Wooster.
\par Answer:  _Jeeves_
\par 2. House keeper at Manderley, she had a special relationship with the first Mrs. de Winter, and eventually burns down the house because she cannot tolerate seeing her mistress replaced.
\par Answer:  Mrs. _Danvers_
\par 3. Butler at the Wayne household, he is a father figure for his employer, and one of the few individuals privy to the Bat Cave.
\par Answer:  Alfred _Pennyworth_ (prompt on Alfred)
\par 
\par 7. 30-20-10-5 Name the author from works.
\par    30: The Sensuous, Dirty Old Man, Lecherous Limericks, annotated versions of Don Juan and Gulliver's Travels
\par    20: Purr-fect Crime, Thirteen Horrors of Holloween, The Casebook of the Black Widowers
\par    10: The Caves of Steel, The Naked Sun, Azazel
\par    5: Foundation, Foundation and Empire, Second Foundation
\par Answer:  Isaac _Asimov_
\par 
\par 8. FTP each, Identify these chemical compounds from their colorful common names:
\par 1. Green vitriol
\par Answer:   _iron (II) sulphate_ or _ferrous sulphate_or _FeSO4_
\par 2. verdigris
\par Answer:   _copper (II) carbonate_ or _cupric carbonate_ or _CuCO3_
\par 3. vermillion
\par Answer:   _zinc sulphide_ or _ZnSO4_
\par }{\f4\cf6 
\par }{\f4 9. 30-20-10 Identify the painter
\par    30: This artist got his start as a wall paper designer and then worked for an advertising agency before being deeply moved when he saw a reproduction of Giorgio de Chirico's painting "The Song of Love" in 1922.  With the
 sponsorship of an art gallery, he became a full time painter and held his first solo exhibition in 1927, which was not received well and made him lose the support of the gallery.
\par    20: He was forced to move to Paris, where he befriended several of the Pa
ris Surrealists, including poets Andre Breton and Paul Eluard, and he became familiar with the collages of Max Ernst.  There he painted his only famous early work, "Threatening Weather" in 1928.
\par    10: After moving back to Belgium his work became more wide
ly accepted, and he produced well-known works like "The Castle of the Pyrenees" (1959), and "Golconda" (1953), which depicted bourgeois, bowler-hatted men falling like rain toward a street lined with houses. 
\par Answer:  Rene _ Magritte_
\par 
\par 10. Name the American writer, 30-20-10-5
\par    30: Born in New York City in 1752 and educated at Princeton, this he was a poet, soldier, privateer, prisoner of war, and farmer in his free time.  His primary profession, however, was that of a schoolteacher and minister.
\par    20: Du
ring the American Revolution he served on a blockade runner, running goods to and from the West Indies.  Previously, he had spent two years in the Caribbean islands, where he produced two of his most ambitious poems, "The Beauties of Santa Cruz" and "The 
House of Night."
\par    10: Captured by the British 1780, he  wrote The British Prison-Ship, a bitter account of his imprisonment and satirical commentary on the British monarchy upon his release.  He then gave up poetry and became an editor of the strongly Rep
ublican National Gazette in Philadelphia.
\par    5) He is nicknamed the Poet of the American Revolution.
\par Answer:  Philip _Freneau_
\par 
\par 11. Identify the following phases of the cell cycle for the stated number of points each:
\par 1.  For 5:  During this phase in animal cells a cleavage furrow appears, pinching the cytoplasm into two daughter cells.
\par Answer:  _cytokinesis_
\par 2.  For 10: During this mitotic phase, the nucleus and cytoplasm undergo changes.  In the nucleus, the nucleoli disappear and the chromatin begin to b
e formed into distinguishable double chromosomes called sister chromatids.  In the cytoplasm the spindle fibers are formed and the centrosomes spread apart.
\par Answer:  _Prophase_
\par 3.  For 15: During this phase of meiosis, the centromeres of sister chromatids separate and the sister chromatids of each air, now individual chromosomes, move toward opposite poles of the cell.
\par Answer:  _Anaphase 2_  (prompt on anaphase)
\par 
\par 12. 30-20-10 Identify the mineral
\par    30: This mineral, chemically named Calcium Sulfate dihydride, naturally occurs in extensive beds associated with other evaporite minerals like anhydrite and halite, particularly in Permian and Triassic sedimentary formations, as a result of the evapora
tion of ocean brine.
\par    20: The fine-grained massive variety is called alabaster, while in well-developed crystals the mineral commonly has been called selenite. It is an important constituent of cap rock an anhydrite forming a covering on salt domes; it al
so occurs disseminated in limestones, dolomitic limestones, and some shales.
\par    10: This mineral is of reat commercial importance. Crude forms are used as a fluxing agent, fertilizer, filler in paper and textiles, and retarder in portland cement. About thr
ee-fourths of the total production is calcined for use as plaster of paris and as building materials in plaster, Keene's cement, board products, and tiles and blocks.  The Gypsite is the earthy pulverulent variety.
\par Answer:  _Gypsum_
\par 
\par 13. FFP from the first clue, or FTP from the second clue, name the following mythical creatures.
\par 1.  For 10: In Shakespeare's Hamlet, the title character compares Claudius to one of these creatures, while comparing his father to Hyperion.
\par    For 5: These deities of the woods in Greek mythology were companions of Dionysus, and spent their time in hedonistic pursuits.
\par Answer:  _Satyrs_
\par 2.  For 10: The argonauts came across these creatures starving an old man by fouling his food before he could eat it. On Iris' behest they drove them away instead of killing them. One makes a fleeting appearance in Shakespeare's Tempest.
\par    For 5: They had the heads of old women, and the bodies and wings of birds. Their name comes from a Greek verb meaning "to snatch."
\par Answer:  _Harpies_
\par 3.  For 10: This creature seems to have originated in the Middle East, with the Babylonians and Assyrians using them in sculptures. In christian times this creature was a motif in bestiaries of St. Basil and St. Ambrose. 
\par    5:  This creature had the head, and wings of an eagle, the body of a lion, and a serpent's tail. One appears in Carroll's Alice in Wonderland.
\par Answer:  _Griffin_
\par 
\par 14. FTPE given a plot summary of a Wagner Opera, name it.
\par 10: The title character is condemned to wander the seas, but can step on land once every 7 years to seek a woman whose love will free him. Senta's love for him, and her ultimate suicide frees him from the cycle.
\par Answer:  The_Flying Dutchman_(or Der Fliegende Hollander)
\par 10: The title character protects Elsa from false accusations of murder, but has to return to Montsalvat, the kingdom of the Holy Grail, when Elsa persuades him to divulge his identity to her.
\par Answer:  _Lohengrin_
\par 10: The title character is Lohengrin's father. He wins  a magic spear back from Klingsor, the evil magician, and uses it to heal the wounds of Amfortas, ruler of the knights at Montsalvat.
\par Answer:  _Parsifal_
\par 
\par 15. Name the British children's author from for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5: Better known for his work in the spy genre, he wrote a children's fantasy about Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, the Magical Car.
\par Answer:  Ian_Fleming_
\par 2.  For 10: Born in Edinburgh, he rose to be the Secretary of the Bank of England, but retired after publishing a fantasy about Mole, Rat, and other unforgettable animals.
\par Answer:  Kenneth_Grahame_
\par 3.  For 15: Born in 1897, she wrote over 700 books and 10,000 short stories. Among her most popular series of books are Malory Towers, Noddy, the Wishing Chair, and the Famous Five.
\par Answer:  Enid _Blyton_
\par 
\par 16. 30-20-10, name the anthropologist:
\par 30: He was educated at Trinity College Cambridge, his study of meteorology led him to write Meteorographica, the first book on modern weather mapping techniques. He is considered to be the founder of Eugenics
\par 20: A cousin of Darwin, he became interested in heredity, and collected anatomical statistics on a large number of people. He was the first to demonstrate the calculation of statistical correlation.
\par 10: His collection of statistics on the human body led him to devise a method of identification by fingerprinting.
\par Answer:  Sir Francis_Galton_
\par 
\par 17. Vrrooom! Time to refresh your knowledge of Formula 1 racing.  For 5 points each, given the name of a European F1 track, name the country it is located in.
\par 1.  Magny-Cours: 
\par Answer:  _France_
\par 2.  Silverstone: 
\par Answer:  _Britain_(England or equivalent is OK)
\par 3.  Spa Francorchamps: 
\par Answer:  _Belgium_
\par 4.  Hockenheim: 
\par Answer:  _Germany_
\par 5.  Monza: 
\par Answer:  _Italy_
\par 6.  Now, for 5 points all or nothing, name the 1997 driver's champion, and the team he races for.
\par Answer:  Michael_Schumacher_ ,_Ferrari_
\par 
\par 18. For 10 points each, name the terms for machines, real or hypothetical, from computer science.
\par 10: This is the general term used to describe a hardware or software unit whose internal structure is unknown, but whose function in terms of inputs and outputs is well documented.
\par Answer:  _Black Box_
\par 10: Construction on this machine devised by Babbage wa
s started in the 1820's,but never completed. It was to have a capability of 20 decimal places, and the computation were to be based on the difference of squares. It was the precursor to the Analytical Engine.
\par Answer:  _Difference Engine_
\par 10: Had this machi
ne been built, it would have had roughly the power of a modern desktop computer. Its design was was important in the development of modern computing and the structure of imperative programming languages such as C and BASIC. Its "inventor" died of self adm
instered poisoning at the age of 41.
\par Answer:  _Turing Machine_(inv. by Alan Mathison Turing)
\par 
\par 19. You've heard of Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon, but it seems to us as if Samuel L. Jackson pops up more frequently. Given a description of his cameo and character, name the movie 5-10-15.
\par 1.  For 5: As Ray Arnold, he is the only character with enough UNIX knowledge to get the power in the park back on.
\par Answer:  _Jurassic Park_
\par 2.  For 10: Clarence, working at McDowell's, foils his plot as "Hold-up Man" to rob the restaurant.
\par Answer:  _Coming to America_
\par 3.  For 15: As Lieutenant Commander Robby Jackson, he defends an ex-CIA employee against Sean Miller.
\par Answer:  _Patriot Games_
\par 
\par 20. FTPE, name the following British restrictions on trade
\par 1. Effective chiefly in the 17
th and 18th centuries, these measures were designed to restrict English trade to English ships so that adequate vessels would be available in wartime but became a form of trade protectionism during the mercantilist era. They led to unrest in the American 
colonies and were
\par repealed in 1849 and 1854.
\par Answer:  _Navigation_ Acts
\par 2. These were first issued during the 18th century on the advice of the Privy Council, but the best known historically are those issued in late 1807 which imposed a blockade on Napoleon
ic Europe by the British. The resulting tensions contributed to the War of 1812.
\par Answer:  _Orders in Council_
\par 3. In English history, these were any of the regulations governing the import and export of grain. They achieved significance in the late 18th cen
tury during the grain shortage caused by Britain's growing population and blockades imposed in the Napoleonic Wars. They were repealed in 1846, a triump for manufacturing interests.
\par Answer:  _Corn laws_
\par 
\par 21. Name the German political figure from the first clue for 15 points, or from the second for 5.
\par 15: This man was the illegitimate son of a Lubeck ship assistant, and fled to Norway in 1933 where he became an ardent socialist.
\par 5: In 1957 this future chancellor was elected mayor of West Berlin.
\par Answer:  Willy_Brandt_
\par 15: The son of a Cologne court clerk, he was the mayor of that city until 1933 when he was expelled by the Nazis.
\par 5: in 1945 he was reinstated as mayor, and became the cofounder of the Christian Democratic Union. He retired from chancellorship in 1963, but remained in the parliament for 4 more years.
\par Answer:  Konrad_Adenauer_
\par }{\f4\cf6 
\par 22. Name the Booker Prize winner from a plot synopsis for 10 points, 5 if you need the author's name.
\par 1.  For 10: In a crumbling villa in WWII Italy, a young Ca
nadian nurse remains behind to tend her doomed patient - a horribly burned pilot. Through the gradual unravelling of his life and the appearance of an old family friend and a young Sikh sapper, the question of identity is explored. 
\par    For 5: Michael Ondaatje
\par Answer:  The _English Patient_
\par 2.  For 10: Set in a small town in Kerala, this novel is about a family seens from the perspective of seven-year-old Rahel. She and her twin brother, Estha, live with their mother. The family owns a pickle factory that co
mes into conflict with the Communists.
\par     For 5: Arundhati Roy
\par Answer:  _The God of Small Things_
\par 3.  For 10: In mid-1800's England, a young man Oscar is an Anglican priest, a misfit and an outcast, but with the soul of an angel. A young woman is an heire
ss who wants to liberate her sex from the confines of male-dominated culture. They meet on a ship going to Australia; once there, they are for different reasons ostracized from society, and as a result "join forces" together.
\par    5: Peter Carey
\par Answer:  _Oscar and Lucinda_
\par 
\par 23. Answer the following about the Federal Reserve System for the stated number of points.
\par 5: This is the only state that has two Federal Reserve banks.
\par Answer:  _Missouri_
\par 5: Governors are elected for a period of this many years.
\par Answer:  _14_
\par 10: This group, consisting of the 7 governors and 5 heads of regional banks, meets on a quarterly basis to determine interest rates.
\par Answer:  _FOMC_ or _Federal Open Market Committee_
\par 10: For a final ten points, name any two of the six governors aside from Chairman Greenspan.
\par Answer:  Alice M. _Rivlin_, Edward W. _Kelley_, Jr., Susan M. _Phillips_, Laurence H.
\par _Meyer_, Roger W. _Ferguson_, Jr., Edward M. _Gramlich_ 
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24\cf6 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4\cf6 
24. Name the London museum or gallery from its address or from further clues for the stated number of points, or for fewer points if there is a second clue:
\par 1.  For 5: Great Russell Street, London WC1B
\par Answer:  The_British Museum_
\par 2.  For 10: South Kensington, SW7
\par For 5: Founded in 1852, in 1899 it was renamed in honor of Britain's longest reigning queen, and her husband.
\par Answer:  _Victoria and Albert_Museum
\par 3.  For 15: 20 Maresfield Gardens, Hampstead
\par For 5: The museum presents the life of the house's most famous occupant. Of particular interest is a couch in the study.
\par Answer:  The_Freud Museum_
\par 
\par 25. Name the Enlightenment work from a short description, 5-10-15
\par 5: A young man travels the world looking for Cunegonde, his love, and concludes that he should just cultivate his garden.
\par Answer:  _Candide_
\par 10: An influential, fictional treatise on education, which was condemned, causing Rousseau's subsequent exile from France. Rousseau explains that humans are naturally good and independent, with society corruptin
g the state of nature by creating the laws of property and unnatural desires. People must be educated to bring out their natural goodness.
\par Answer:  _Emile_
\par 15: Diderot speaks with a famous contemporary mathematician about life; this mathematician has a dre
am that is interpreted by a doctor and a friend. But the content dares to strike unorthodox perceptions in many fields of study. What eventually is formed is a picture of man as a mechanical instrument, and  dissassembles morality and man-made institution
s as falsity built on
\par misperceptions. 
\par Answer:  _D'Alembert's Dream_
\par 
\par 26. 5/10/15 - Identify the deity associated with learning or wisdom in the
\par following mythological traditions:
\par 1.  For 5 - Greek
\par Answer:   _Athena_
\par 10 - Egyptian
\par Answer:   _Thoth_
\par 15 - Hindu
\par Answer:   _Saraswati_
\par 
\par 27. Answer the following about Cosmic rays.
\par 1.  20 pts. all or nothing, in any order which are the 5 elements whose nuclei are represented to the greatest extent in cosmic rays.
\par Answer:  _Hydrogen, Helium, Lithium, Beryllium, Boron_
\par 2.  Name the Dutch physicist whose experiments proved that cosmic rays were formed of electrically charged particles.
\par Answer:  Jacob _Clay_
\par 
\par 28. Answer the following about steel, 10 pts. each
\par 1.  This substance is the waste from a blast furnace, and is used in concrete mixes and to surface roads.
\par Answer:  _slag_
\par 2.  Pig iron or hot briquetted iron is also known by this name which is derived from the chemical process to extract pig iron from its ore.
\par Answer:  _DRI_ or _Direct Reduced Iron_
\par 3.  This kind of a furnace was used in a now oudated method of making steel. The
\par furnace is a like a large shallow pit that is heated from underneath.
\par Answer:  _Open Hearth Furnace_
\par 
\par 29. Name these defiant figures from American History, 15 each:
\par 1. His political career was less than stellar; he was a one term senator from
\par Kansas. He is known only for having defied the Republican party line and voted
\par to acquit President Andrew Johnson at his impeachment trial. Name this man,
\par featured as one of John F. Kennedy's Profiles in Courage.
\par Answer:  Edmund G. _Ross_
\par 2. A former indentured servant, he rose to prosperity and became a champion
\par of Jeffersonian Republicanism. Victimised by the Sedition Act of 1798, he won
\par reelction from prison. Give the full name of this man, nicknamed the "Spitting
\par Lion" for his act of defiance.
\par Answer:  _Matthew Lyon_
\par 
\par 30. Answer the following about ancient Jpanese history for 10 pts. each Generally believed to be the first Japanese culture is this one, which dates from about 8000 BC.
\par 1.  A hunting and gathering culture, it used stone and bone tools and made pottery of distinctive design.
\par Answer:  _Jomon_ culture
\par 2.  The Jomon were displaced in the 3rd century BC by this people who probably emigrated from the Asian mainland.
\par Answer:  _Yayoi_ 
\par 3.  The first Japanese capital was established here, and subsequently this city became a great seat of Buddhism.
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24\cf6 
\par }}