{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\f4 \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s2 \ql \sl240 \f22 \sbasedon222 \snext2 Default;}{\*\cs3 \additive \ql \sl240 \f4 \fs18 \snext3 Default SS;}{\s4 \qc \sl240 \fs28 \b \sbasedon2 \snext4 Header;}{\s5 \ql \sl240 \sbasedon2 \snext5 Body;}{\s6 \qc \sl240 \i \sbasedon2 \snext6 Footer;}{\s7 \ql \sl240 \fs20 \sbasedon2 \snext7 Footnote;}{\*\cs8 \additive \ql \sl240 \up6 \snext8 Footnote Index;}}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1440 {\headerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\headerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Tossups by Georgia Tech for the 1998 ACF Regionals\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  In 1924 he proposed that matter could exhibit wave properties, with absolutely no experimental evidence.  It would be three years before two other scientist would prove him correct in a ground breaking experiment. FTP name this physisist whose theory w}{\f21 as proven when Clinton Davidson and Lester Germer diffracted electrons through a nickel crystal  in 1927.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Louis _DeBroglie_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Born in 1928 in Ceylon, Minnesota, this man served as state Attorney General in the early 60's.  He served in the U.S. Senate from 1964 until 1976, having taken over for Hubert Humphrey, whom he had helped campaign in 1948.  FTP, who is this politician}{\f21 , who was elected Vice-President under Jimmy Carter?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Walter _Mondale_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. His 1997 book "The Mad Dog" contains ten of his earliest stories.  His "Irish Journal" details his 1950's trip from his native Germany to the Emerald Isle.  A table with a cigarette burn keeps popping up throughout his story "And Where Were You, Adam?" }{\f21 For 10 points, identify this 1972 Nobel laureate whose works also include "The Safety Net" and "The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum." \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Heinrich _BOLL_ (or BOELL; the o has an umlaut) \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  Mademoiselle de Rocoulles, a Huguenot refugee, was his early governess and she taught him to speak French better than German.  His father regimented his education from 6am to 10:30pm and he learned all 54 movements of the Prussian drill before he was 5}{\f21  years old.  He inherited the throne at age 28 and unlike his father loved French literature, poetry, and music even playing the flute and writing poetry all his life.  FTP name this King of Prussia who attacked Silesia in 1740.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Frederick the Great_ or _Frederick II_ (ruled 1740-1786)\\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  An anecdote about this notoriously absentminded man says he once prepared himself a beverage of bread and butter and called it the worst cup of tea he had ever tasted. At the age of four, he was kidnapped by gypsies but later recovered, and he was near}{\f21 ly expelled from Oxford for having a copy of David Hume's A Treatise of Human Nature.  He became a Dean at the University of Glasgow in 1758, and later traveled to France, where he befriended Francois Quesnay.  FTP, who is this man, whose greatest work bec}{\f21 ame the foundation for the field of economics?\tab \tab \tab \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Adam _Smith_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6. "The Philosophical Lexicon" playfully defines his last name as "a ponderous device for boring through thick layers of substance." His lover and former student Hannah Arendt died in 1975, the year before he did.  For 10 points, identify this temporary re}{\f21 ctor of Freiburg University under the Nazis and author of "Being and Time." \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Martin _HEIDEGGER_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7.  Named for a nearby river, it occured around 7:40 AM (local time) on June 30, 1908 at 60 degrees 55' N, 101 degrees 57' E.  Equivalent in force to 10 or 15 megatons of TNT, its difficult to say just what caused this enormous explosion, since the first s}{\f21 cientist to visit the scene was Leonid Kulik, in 1927.  FTP, identify this unexplained flattening of over 2000 square km of Siberian forest which has been blamed on everything from asteroids to comets to antimatter to black holes.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Tunguska_ incident\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8.  He took part in the Geramn revolutionary movement from 1848-1849 and was condemned to death.  Sent to Siberia in 1855, he escaped to Japan, and arrived in England in 1861.  In the First International, he was the opponent of Karl Marx.  But at the Hague}{\f21  Congress in 1872, he was outvoted and expelled.  FTP name this Russian anarchist.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Mikhail Alexeevich _Bakunin_(1814-1876)\\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9. Its staff writers included John Leach, Dicky Doyle, and a young William Makepeace Thackeray.  It once suggested that poor people be labeled with the letter P and gave London's Great Exhibition Hall the nickname of "Crystal Palace."  For 10 points, name }{\f21 this humor magazine of early Victorian England.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _"PUNCH"_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10.  This man had a cousin and a brother who were singers, and his cousin was the first to sing the role of Waldemar in one of his compositions.  His early composing life was held up for a short time when he had to wait for the "S" encyclopedia to learn ho}{\f21 w to compose the sonata form movement for a string quartet.  Later in his career, he commented that "There is still much good music to be written in C major," although he had discovered something "which will assure the supremacy of German music for the nex}{\f21 t 100 years," the 12-tone method.  FTP, who is this composer of Gurrelieder, The Hand of Fate, Transfigured Night, and Pierrot Lunaire?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Arnold _Schoenberg_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11.  Tricked into an unfair fight and killed at the age of 27, this warrior nevertheless had a great career.  Born Setante, son of the god Lug, he had seven fingers on each hand, seven toes on each foot, and seven pupils in each eye.  When he was only 17, }{\f21 he defended Ulster against the invasion of Queen Maeve.  FTP, who is this leader of the Red Branch, hero of the Ulster Cycle?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Cuchulain_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12.  A man, a lion, and ox, and an eagle appeared to this woman in the 1920's, and this vision led her to develop a gospel based on the themes of salvation, Holy Spirit baptism, healing, and the Second Coming of Christ.  The Angelus Temple in Los Angeles b}{\f21 ecame the center of her religion, and it grew quickly for the next few years. Her son, Rolf, assumed leadership of the church after her.  FTP, who is this woman, founder of the Foursquare Gospel?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Aimee Semple _McPherson_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13.  The name's the same. The Christians celebrate it with a feast on the 7th Sunday following Easter, in order to commemorate the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles fifty days after the resurrection of Christ. The Jewish celebrate it fifty days }{\f21 after Passover to commemorate the offering of barley.  FTP give the shared name derived from Greek meaning fiftieth.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Pentecost_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  Excepting the Civil War, The Federal Reserve Board has prevented this condition from ever occurring in America. Since they cannot treat the economy with Ritalin, they affect changes through the interest rate, to keep the value of the dollar relatively}{\f21  steady, and avoid the price increases of more than 50% per month experienced in certian parts of the world.  FTP name this condition, most vividly illustrated by the devaluation of Confederate currancy during the Civil War.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Hyper-Inflation_  (Prompt on inflation)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15.  They appeared 350 million years ago, according to fossil record, and still exist according to Comoros Island natives.  In fact they do still exist, as was proven by the capture of specimens in 1938 and 1952.  For ten points name this deep sea fish who}{\f21 se "reappearance"  shocked biologists.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Coelacanths_ or _Latimeria_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16.  If any six points on a conic section are joined by straight lines, and if the sides of the hexagon thus formed are extended, the three pairs of opposite sides will intersect at three points that lie on one straight line.  FTP name this theorom, origin}{\f21 ally contained in the "Treatise on Conic Sections", and which shares its name with a wager and law of fluid dynamics.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Pascal_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17. 1997 marked 35 years since the death of this man whose California home became known as "Tor House."  For 10 points, name this American poet of "Rock and Hawk" and "The Double Axe" who also adapted the Euripides play "Medea" into a 1947 vehicle for Dame}{\f21  Judith Anderson.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Robinson _JEFFERS_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18.  It celebrates its independance day on March 21, and this March will mark only the eighth such celebration since it left South Africa in 1990.  It is bounded by Angola at the north, Botswana to the east, the Atlantic to the west, and by South Africa to}{\f21  the south (Where else?). FTP name this Bantu-speaking country whose capitol is Windhoek.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Namibia_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19.  He studied at the Yale School of Fine Arts. He wrote 13 books and  illustrated 142 more.  In all, he produced about 2,800 paintings and sketches, plus hundreds of magazine illustrations.  All of his work centered around themes of the Old West: Cowboys}{\f21 , horses, and Indians.  FTP name this American artist cheifly known for his 25 bronze sculptures, including \'d2Bronco Buster\'d3, and for \'d2furnishing the pictures\'d3 for William Randolph Hearst\'d5s \'d2war.\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Frederick _Remington_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20. A dropped handkerchief with the monogrammed letter H helps identify the killer in this novel.  But suspicion moves to an unlikely source when the H is found to be a letter in the Cyrillic alphabet.  This plot twist can be found -- for 10 points -- in w}{\f21 hat famous Agatha Christie whodunit that takes place on a train?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _"MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS"_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 21. In 1894, extracts from it were found to affect human blood pressure, but even 15 years later, it was still described as "a small bi-lobed body of unknown function attached to the infundibulum (in-fun-DIB-ya-lum) at the base of the brain."  For 10 point}{\f21 s, name this gland that regulates the body's thyroid and adrenal glands and whose anterior produces human growth hormone.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _PITUITARY_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 22.  It says, in part, "We intend to begin unrestricted submarine warfare [and] shall endeavor to keep the United States neutral\'d3 We make Mexico a proposal of alliance [with] an understanding\'bc that Mexico is to reconquer the lost territory in Texas, New Me}{\f21 xico and Arizona\'bc"  For 10 points, identify this World War I telegram whose name comes from the German who signed it.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _ZIMMERMANN_ Telegram\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 23. She was a file manager in China when she met her husband Paul, speaking to him in a voice once described as "two parts Broderick Crawford to one part Elizabeth II".  For 10 points, name this American who later attended the Cordon Bleu school and collab}{\f21 orated with two of her friends on a massive French cookbook.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Julia _CHILD_\par 
}\pard \pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \page \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Bonuses by Georgia Tech for the 1998 ACF Regionals\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. August Wilson's plays are each set in a different decade, in what he has called a cycle.  They share a heavy use of vernacular, jazz, and lyrical dialogue.  In all, this "cycle" currently contains 6 plays, two of which have won Pulitzer Prizes.  For fif}{\f21 teen Points apiece on the first clue, and ten on the second, name the following August Wilson Plays.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Fifteen point clue -- It won the 1990 Pulitzer prize and is the 3rd in the  cycle\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Ten  Point clue -- It is about a family's debate over selling an heirloom piano, and was made into a Hallmark TV movie\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _The Piano Lesson_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. Fifteen point clue -- It won the 1986 Pulitzer Prize and is the 1st in the cycle\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21    Ten point clue -- It was first produced in 1985, concerns the conflict between a father and a son staged agaist the 1950s\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Fences_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. Let's test your knowledge of the U-2 affair.  For ten points apiece, answer the following questions concerning this 1960 incident between  the US and the USSR.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  He was the American spy who bailed out of the U-2 and was sentenced  by the Russians to 10 years confinement.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Francis Gary _Powers_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  In what year was Powers released (He didn't serve his 10 year sentence out fully)?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  19_62_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  In order to  get Powers released the U.S. struck a deal with Russia that included the release of this  Russian spy being held in the U.S.:\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Ruldolf _Abel_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. Although sometimes all of the bonuses seem to be in Greek, this bonus actually deals with the Greek-related names of Chemical Elements.  FTP each, name the element given the derivation of its name.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. From the Greek for "new twin"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Neodymium_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. From the Greek for color\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Chromium_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. From the Greek king condemned to eternal thirst, it is so named because of its virtual insolubility\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Tantalum_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4. It has been said that America is the richest nation in the world... but it hasn't always been that way. Yet America does have a penchant for buying territory from other countries.  Name the following purchases for five points each...and their cost withi}{\f21 n a million dollars for an additional 5 points each.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. This purchase aquired 30,000 square miles of South Western territory for the placement of a southern transcontinental railroad and was aquired by the then U.S. minister to Mexico.     Answer:  _Gadsden_ Purchase;  _$9-11 Million_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. This archipelago was purchased from the Spanish at the end of the Spanish American war, as part of the final treaty. Its purchase launched America into its Imperialist period.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Philippines_  _Philippine Islands_  _Philippine_;  _$19-$21 Million_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. In 1916 America made the one purchase widely held as its worst deal.  It was made in order to prevent Germany from aquiring these nearby islands whose economy had collapsed.  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Virgin_ Islands;  _$24-26 Million_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  The Hittites were an interesting early culture, whose extensive trade with neighboring empires diversified it in uncharacteristic ways.  In fact, the Hittites spoke three different dialects throughout their occupation of Anatolia.  For fifteen points a}{\f21 piece, answer the following questions about Hittite communications.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Much of our Hittite knowledge results from surviving tablets inscribed with either Hittite Hieroglyphics, or this type of writing, commonly associated with the Sumarians.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Cuneiform_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This was the primary Hittite spoken language, a mistranslation of which it is believed gave the Hittites their name.  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Nesite_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6. Name the Ibsen plays from characters, for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 FTP each, do just that.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. Halvard & Aline Solness, and Dr. Heidal\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _The Master Builder_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. Nils Krogstad, Torvald and Nora Helmer\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _A Doll's House_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. George Tesman, Mrs. Elusted, judge Brack\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Hadda Gabler_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7. Answer the following about Pablo Neruda for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. For Five points Neruda served in the senate of what country for 4 years?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Chile_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. For ten points name the 1994 movie about a shy man who uses an exiled Neruda's help to find true love.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Il Postino_  or _The Postman_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. For Fifteen points -- Upon his death, Neruda believed he only had one friend, this man, who was assassinated in office as president of Chile only days after Narudas death in 1971.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Salvador _Allende_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8. The first comprehensive thoery of continental drift was proposed in 1912.  Basically it stated that most of the current day continents were once part of a large landmass called Pangaea.  According to theory, Pangea split into the different continents an}{\f21 d drifted apart to form the world we now know. FTP each answer the following about continental drift and it pioneers.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. He proposed Pangaea in 1912\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Alfred Wegener_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. This man later proposed that two ancient continents, not one, originated the modern world.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Alexander L._Du Toit_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. One of Du Toit's proposed continents was called Gondwanaland, name the other.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Laurasia_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9. Deci, Centi, milli, micro... for five points apiece, in any order, provide the final six prefixes used in the metric measurment of very small objects.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _nano_; _pico_; _femto_; _atto_; _zepto_; yocto_;\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10. In the late 16th Century the Edict of Nantes created peace between the Roman Catholics and the Huguenots... let's test your knowledge of the Edict of Nantes.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For five points --  who issued the Edict?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Henry IV_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  FTP -- In what year was it issued?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _1598_  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For fifteen points -- In what year (within five) was it revoked?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _1685_ accept 1680-1690\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11. The computer term "bug" became part of computer jargon in 1944, when a "bug" was actually found in a relay circuit of a naval computer.  For the designated number of points, answer the following questions about this event.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. Ten points -- What computer pioneering woman pulled the bug out?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Grace Murray _Hopper_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. Five points -- What kind of insect was it that Hopper pulled out?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _a Moth_ (it is preserved to this day)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. fifteen Points -- What Military computer did the "bug" shut down?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Mark I_  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12. Ok, so you know all of your operas and composers, and you're just waiting for an opera bonus, right?  Well, here it is, but it has a twist.  This time you have to give the author associated with each work, either for writing the work upon which it is b}{\f21 ased, or for writing its libretto.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. For five Points - Carmen\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Prosper _Merimee_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. For ten points - Four Saints in Three Acts\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Answer:  Gertrude _Stein_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. For fifteen points - Boris Godunov\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Alexandr _Puskin_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13. Let's test your Great Lakes knowledge: for ten points apiece, answer the following questions related to the Great Lakes.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. In this weather phenomenon, wet winter winds sweep across the frigid lakes, and deposit huge amounts of snow upon adjacent cities.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Lake Effect_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. This wind of Lake Erie claimed the steel freighter Edmund Fitzgerald in 1956, and is featured in Gordon Lightfoot's 1970s ballad of the lost ship.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _The Witch of November_  of  _Gales of November_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This was the first Great Lake seen by Europeans, and is the second largest.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Huron_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14. Identify the following abstract expressionst artists when given one of his works, and his nationality.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. "Elegies"  or "Elegy for the Spanish Republice"; American\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Robert _Motherwell_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. The series "Women"; Dutch\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  William de _Kooning_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. "No.10" \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Mark _Rothko_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15. The Geneva conventions were revised in 1948 in order to provide new conventions in response to abuses observed during WWII.  The following questions concern those revised conventions.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. For five points, it was at a conference for what international humanitarian agency that the new provisions were written up?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The International _Red Cross_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. For ten points, although the Geneva conventions were approved in Geneva, they were written in what city, the site of the Red Cross conference?  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21  Answer:  _Stockholm\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For Fifteen points, how many conventions were written  at the Stockholm conference?\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _four_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16. In 1689 the first of four wars concerned with the dividing of North American Territories began in Europe.  It lasted Eight years and ended with the Treaty of Rijswijk in 1697.  Of course, most of you already know I'm talking about King William's War...}{\f21  but that's only the title its know by in America.  In Europe it is known by any one of three different titles.  FTP each,  name these other names for King William's War. \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  (The war of the) _Palatinate_; of the _League of Augsburg_; and of the _Grand Alliance_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17. The 1998 book "Coined by Shakespeare" contains many of the Bard's additions to the English language.  For 10 points each, name the Shakespeare play where: \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. Ariel says to Prince Ferdinand, "Hark, Hark!  Bow-wow!  The 'watch dogs' bark!"\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _TEMPEST_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. Polonius uses the word "outbreak" in trying to find how Laertes is doing in Paris.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _HAMLET_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. Beatrice calls the charges against Hero "'unmitigated' rancor".\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18. David Livingstone called it "God's highway" when he first traveled it in 1853.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 10 points, name this 4th-largest river of Africa that runs between Angola and Mozambique.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _ZAMBEZI_ (zam-BEE-zee)\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Now for 5 points each, name the four other nations besides Angola and Mozambique through which the Zambezi zig-zags.  \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answers: _ZAMBIA, ZIMBABWE, NAMIBIA, BOTSWANA_ \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19. Name the man, 30/20/10.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  A museum is named for this New York-born author who camped one night in 1832 near what is now Oklahoma State University.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Part of the U.S. Embassy in Madrid is also named after him, partly because of his 4 years as America's ambassador to Spain.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  He is buried in a New York cemetery called "Sleepy Hollow".\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Washington _IRVING_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20.  Name these works of J.S. Bach, 10 each:\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  The Margrave to whom the manuscripts of this collection of virtuoso instrumental pieces was sent may never have looked at them.  The second of the six features the trumpet, while the last highlights the viola da braccia.\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _Brandenburg Concertos_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Most critics are agreed that this, the master\'d5s last work, was written for a keyboard instrument, though there is controversy over which one.  It includes such sections as \'d2Canon per Augmentationem in contrario motu.\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _Art of Fugue_\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  BWV 244 is this work, which closes with the depressing chorus \'d2Wir setzen uns mit Traenen nieder\'d3 -- \'d2We sit down in tears.\'d3\par 
}\pard \s5 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _St. Matthew Passion_\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}}