{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f4\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author Matthew Weiner}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2000\mo7\dy17\hr15\min28}{\revtim\yr2000\mo7\dy17\hr15\min29}{\version5}{\edmins1}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3542}{\nofchars20193}{\nofcharsws24798}
{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1200 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs36 Tossups by the GWU and Auburn for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 1. It's title is taken from W.B. Yeats' "The Second Coming," and it chronicles the downfall of a village leader named Okonkwo ; when he returns from exile, he finds colonial laws and Christianity where tribal laws once held sway. He attempts to lead a rev
olt but has no support and hangs himself in disgrace. FTP name this 1958 work, perhaps the best known modern African novel, by Chinua Achebe.  
\par Answer:  "_Things Fall Apart_" 
\par 
\par 2.  His father wanted him to learn French and refused to speak to him if address
ed in English. His use of approximations while studying engineering encouraged him to think intuitively about expressing fundamental laws of nature. He applied special relativity to quantum mechanics, developed transformation theory,  and predicted the ex
istence of positrons. FTP identify this theoretical physicist, co-winner of the 1933 Nobel Prize
\par along with Erwin Schroedinger.  
\par Answer:  Paul A.M. _Dirac_ 
\par 
\par 3.  They are enclosed in a double membrane, and contain stroma and lamellae. Within the lamellae a
re closed narrow disks called thylakoids, organized in most plants by grana, which contain light-sensitive compounds. FTP identify these counterparts to mitochondria found in photosynthetic plants.  
\par Answer:  _chloroplasts_ 
\par 
\par 4.  Plato's tale of him meeting with Socrates are probably inaccurate. Aristotle credited him with invention of the dialectic.  He's best known as being the pupil of Parmenides and a disciple of radical 
monism, and for the paradoxes of Achilles and the Tortoise and the arrow that cannot move once it is shot. FTP identify this Eleatic school pre-Socratic philosopher.  
\par Answer:  _Zeno_ of Elea 
\par 
\par 5.  Its atmosphere is mostly nitrogen.  Covered by a red haze, the average surface temperatures is just under 100 Kelvin, and it's interior is li
kely a strange combination of rock, ice, and frozen methane. It's one of the best prospects for finding life in the solar system due to the presence of methane, ammonia, and frozen water. FTP name this satellite, discovered by Christian Huygens in 1655, s
econd largest in the solar system to Jupiter's Ganymede, which orbits Saturn.  
\par Answer:  _Titan_ 
\par 
\par 6.  "...Falling headlong he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out." Even more gruesome descriptions of his suicide are found in Coptic works,
 and in medieval literature. His surname is a corruption of the Latin word for "assassin," suggesting he was a member of 
a radical Jewish faction. He acted as treasurer of the apostles, and is always listed last. FTP identify this apostle, who for 30 pieces of silver, betrayed Jesus.  
\par Answer:  _Judas Iscariot_  
\par 
\par 7.  There's one in west-central Illinois, one in central Arkansas, one in southwestern Oregon, and one on the New River in southern North Carolina. But the most famous one is on the Sai
nt John River and consolidated with surrounding Duval County in 1968. FTP give the common name of these cities, all named after the first Democratic president.
\par Answer:  _Jacksonville_ 
\par 
\par 8.  The granular cortex contains glomeruli and convoluted tubules, and can secrete renin, an enzyme that acts as a powerful vasoconstrictor ; the more striated medulla contain collecting tubules and 
the loop of Henle. Blood comes to it via the renal arteries, and waste leaves through the renal pelvis into ureters.  FTP, identify this organ, repsonible for filtering nitrogenous wastes from the bloodstream.  
\par Answer:  _kidney_s 
\par 
\par 9.  Born in 1890, he sailed the seas for five years when his mentor Dan Cody gave him. After seeing action in World War I, he allegedly engaged in sha
dy dealings with Meyer Wolfsheim. He died at the age of 32, killed by a man who thought that he had killed his wife Myr
tle. FTP identify this fictional socialite, whose story is told by his friend Nick Caraway, the subject of a 1925 novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
\par Answer:  Jay _Gatsby_ (accept "The Great Gatsby") 
\par 
\par 10.  Upon his confirmation in the Lutheran Church, his mother gave him a telescope, and his interest in space never waned.  After receiving his Ph.D. in physics from Berlin University in 1932, he c
ontinued his research for the military, first in Germany and then in the United States.  For 10 points, name this engineer who helped design the Saturn launch vehicle, Explorer I, and the V-2 rocket. 
\par Answer:  Werner von _Braun_ 
\par 
\par 11.  It's never been over
ruled, but Justice Peckham's majority opinion is never cited these days, since the reasoning of such cases as _Parrish v. West Coast Hotel_ have largely overtaken it. More famous is the dissent of Justice Holmes. FTP identify this case that recognized eco
nomic substantive due process, a 1905 case about laws concerning overtime hours in bakeries.  
\par Answer:  _Lochner_ v. New York 
\par 
\par 12. Derived from the vapor-phase oxidation of methanol, it yields methenamine when mixed with ammonia. It reacts in speical ways 
with proteins, causing it to be used as a soil sterilant and disinfectant. FTP identify this chemical, formula HCHO, best known for its use as an embalming agent, the simplest of the aldehydes.  
\par Answer:  _Formaldehyde_ or _methanal_ 
\par 
\par 13.  In his first fu
ll-length work, "The Mechanical Bride," he attempted to explain the purposes and effects of advertising in culture.  He offered the thesis of historical change based on communications technology, particularly the invention of the printing press, in "The G
utenberg Galaxy." FTP, identify this cultural critic, best known for the work "Understanding Media," and his most famous phrase "the medium is the message."  
\par Answer:  Marshall _McLuhan_ 
\par 
\par 14.  Eulogized by Henry Longfellow, Matthew Arnold, and William Morr
is, he's often seen as a sign of Chrisitan influence.  One legend his him killed in a lovers' quarrel by the sword of Miming, but the better known one has this denizen of Breidhablik in Asgard slain by an arrow armed with mistletoe. FTP identify this Nors
e deity, the god of light, purity, and "the good."  
\par Answer:  _Balder_ 
\par 
\par 15.  Filming in the Philippines was supposed to take six weeks but instead lasted sixteen months. Harvey Keitel was replaced in the lead by Martin Sheen, who had a heart attack in mid-
production. Director Francis Ford Coppola invested millions of his own money in this film when it went badly overbudget, and argued with Marlon Brando over lines for weeks.  Despite these inauspicious omens, the film was a great success, garnering several
 Oscar nominations. FTP identify this epic 1979 film about the Vietnam War, based loosely on Conrad's "Heart of Darkness."  
\par Answer:  _"Apocalypse Now"_ 
\par }{\f4\fs20\cf6 
\par }{\f4\fs20 
16.  Its title refers to the name of an unreleased film that causes death to anyone who views it, which in turn comes from Hamlet's eulogy for Yorick. Taking place in a near, post-quasi-apocolyptic future, its  settings include a halfway house and a tenni
s camp, but this work is perhaps most notorious for its length, 1,098 pages. FTP, identify this 1993 novel by David Foster Wallace.  
\par Answer:  "_Infinite Jest_" 
\par }{\f4\fs20\cf6 
\par }{\f4\fs20 17.  An elaborate system of canals was finally completed. A period of vast territorial expansi
on, and an era of Confucian dominance, perhaps the most famous figures from this period were not emperors but the poets Po Chui, Tu Fu, and Li Po. FTP identify this Chinese dynasty, which ruled China from 618 to 907 AD/CE. 
\par Answer:  _T'ang_ Dynasty
\par 
\par 18.  D
arius, enraged at Eretria and Athens, sent Hippias, the exiled son of Pisistratus, to lead 30,000 Persians. Outnumbered three to one, mostly Athenian forces under Miltiades, fighting in close array, defeated the Persian calvary. FTP identify this epic 490
 BCE battle, news of which was, according to legend, brought to Athens by Pheidippides. 
\par Answer:  Battle of _Marathon_
\par 
\par 19. Derived from the Turkish word for a Harem girl, this term for the reclining, recumbent female nude is a recurrent theme throughout We
stern art.  The term was first used by Dominique Ingres, in a painting of the same title.  Attracted to exotic, erotic subjects, this normally staid Neoclassicist created a new genre for others to follow such as Giorgione in "Sleeping Venus", Goya in "Nud
e Maja" and Manet in "Olympia." FTP give this art term applicable to any relaxed, comfortable woman painted without clothing.
\par Answer:  Odalisque
\par 
\par 20. The title character of an imaginative novel by George MacDonald, in Talmudic religion, this demon was said 
to haunt wildernesses in stormy weather and be especially dangerous to children and pregnant women. In Arabic mythology she married the Devil and became the mother of evil spirits. Hebrew legend holds that she was created simultaneously with Adam and was 
his first wife, but, refusing to be considered his inferior, she left him and was expelled from Eden to a region of the air. FTP, name this woman, referred to as "the screech owl" in the King James Version.
\par Answer:  Lilith
\par 
\par 21.  Born into a clan that claime
d a homeland in the northwest corner of the world, along the shadowy borders of Vanaheim and the Pictish wilderness. Records of his birth and his parents are scarce. But it's known that his father was a blacksmith and fled from his own people because of a
 
blood feud and sought refuge with the people of the North. He first saw daylight on a battlefield during a raid by the Vanir and went from there went to kill, steal, and wench his way around the world.  FTP, name this Cimmerian Savage created by Robert E.
 Howard.
\par Answer:  Conan
\par 
\par 22.  Born in 1906, his first proof appeared in a German technical journal in 1931. He became a member of the faculty of the University of Vienna in 1930, where he became associated with the school of logical positivism. FTP, name th
is Czech-born American mathematician and logician, best known for his proof of undecidability theorems, which state that any rigidly logical mathematical system contains questions that cannot be proved or disproved on the basis of axioms 
\par within the system.
\par Answer:  Kurt Godel
\par 
\par 23.  Born in Calw, Germany this man ran away from his private school and in 1895, became a bookseller in Tubingen.  He moved to Switzerland in 1899 and published his first book, Peter Camenzind.He had a strong interest in Fairy tales
 and edited a collection of tales by the German Romantics.  He published "The Forest Dweller" in 1917 and followed it with a major collection of tales, Marchen in 1919.  FTP identify this author of "The Glass-Bead Game" who won the Nobel prize in 1946.  

\par Answer:  Herman Hesse\page }{\f4\fs36 Bonuses by the GWU for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 1.  Given the title of a musical work, identify the composer, all from east of what used to be the Iron Curtain.  
\par 1.  "Rusan and Ludmila"  
\par Answer:  Mikhail _Glinka_ 
\par 2.  "Snow Maiden"
\par Answer:  Nikolay _Rimsky-Korsakov_ 
\par 3.  "The Bartered Bride"  
\par Answer:  Bedrich _Smetana_ 
\par 4.  "The Triumph of Bacchus" 
\par Answer:  Aleksandr _Dargomyzhsky_ 
\par 5.  "Jenufa" or "Her Foster Daughter"   
\par Answer:  Leos _Janacek_ 
\par 6.  "Boris Gudonov"  
\par Answer:  Modest _Mussorgsky_ 
\par 
\par 2.  Given the title of an early American realist novel, identify the author, for 10 points each. 
\par 1. "The Story of a Country Town"      
\par Answer:  Edgar Watson _Howe_ 
\par 2.  "Roderick Hudson"                   
\par Answer:  Henry _James_
\par 3.  "The Rise of Silas  Lapham"      
\par Answer:  William Dean _Howells_ 
\par }{\f4\fs20\cf6 
\par }{\f4\fs20 3.  30-20-10, name the playwright from works. 
\par 30. The Aran Islands, In the Shadow of the Glen 
\par 20. The Well of the Saints, Riders to the Sea 
\par 10. The Playboy of the Western World 
\par Answer:  John Millington _Synge_ 
\par 
\par 4.  Identify the author from works on a 30-20-10 basis.  
\par 30:  "The Muses Are Heard," a 1956 account of a theatre troup tour in Moscow.
\par 20 : The story collections "Local Color" and "A Tree Of Night."  
\par 10 : The novel "Other Voices, Other Rooms" and the collection "Breakfast at Tiffany's."  
\par Answer:  Truman _Capote_ 
\par 
\par 5.  Given the contender for worst ever poem published in America, name the poet, for the stated number of points.  
\par 1.  For 5 : "Day of Doom"              
\par Answer:  Michael_ Wigglesworth_ 
\par 2.  For 10 : "The Columbiad"
\par Answer:  Joel _Barlow_ 
\par 3.  For 5 : It's untitled, but it's usually called "The Red Wheelbarrow"        
\par Answer:  William Carlos _Williams_ 
\par 4.  10:  "In A Station of the Metro"    
\par Answer:  Ezra _Pound_ 
\par 
\par 6.  Identify the province from the clues, 30-20-10.
\par 30 : Glacial Lake Aggasiz covered much of its present land area.  
\par 20 :  Major cities include Brandon, Selkirk, and Flin Flon.  
\par 10 : This Canadian province's hockey team moved to Arizona.   A:
\par Answer:  _Manitoba_ 
\par 
\par 7.  Answer these questions abotu bacterial gene regulation, 15 points each.  
\par 1.  These types of genes, controlled by regulator and operator genes, code for polypeptide synthesis.   Answer:   _structural genes_ 
\par 2.  This term refers to a unit of structural genes that form a genetic regulatory system of bacteria in which genes coding for functionally related proteins are clustered along the DNA, enabling their expression to respond to the needs of the cell.
\par Answer:  _operon_ 
\par 
\par 8.  GW's Department of Colvin Science presents : given two animals, give me the lowest classification level they have in common and its name. For instance, if I said "Kenneth Starr" and "weasel," you'd say "Class" and "Mammalia."  Or would you?  
\par 1. crickets and grasshoppers
\par Answer:  Order, Orthoptera 
\par 2.  sea squirt and manta ray
\par Answer:  Phylum, Chordata/Chordates 
\par 3.  squid and octopus    
\par Answer:  Class , Cephalopoda/ Cephalopds 
\par 
\par 9.  Answer these legal questions which relate to evidence, FTP each.   
\par 1.  This term refers to any out of court statement offered at trial to prove the truth of the matter asserted.
\par Answer:  _hearsay_ 
\par 2.  This term refers to a type of pretrial hearing used in both civil and criminal trials to determine the admissibility of certain pieces of evidence - they can be brought by any party.  
\par Answer:  motion in _limine_ (lim-in-ay) 
\par 3.  Name either of the two motions one can bring, claiming that no reasonably jury could see a genuine issue of material fact based on available evidence, one before trial, the other after trial but before jury deliberation.
\par Answer:  _summary judgment_   or _directed verdict_ 
\par 
\par 10.  Given the compound name, identify the oxidation number of the carbon atom, FTP each.   
\par 1. carbon in calcium carbonate
\par Answer:  +4 
\par 2. carbon in silicon carbide 
\par Answer:  -4 
\par 3.  phosphorous in hydrogen phosphide             
\par Answer:  -3 
\par 4.  phosphorous in sodium phosphate          
\par Answer:  +5 
\par 5.  silicon in iron silicate                                   
\par Answer:  +4 
\par 6.   nitrogen in hydrogen cyanide                     
\par Answer:  -5 
\par 
\par 11.  Note the following list of subatomic particles : electron, electron-neutrino, neutron, Z particle, Tau Particle, K meson. Place these particles in order from heaviest to lightest, 5 points for each in the
\par correct order.  
\par Answer:  _Tau_ Particle or Lepton  (1,777 GeV), 
\par                _Neutron_    (938 GeV)  
\par               _K Meson_   (494 GeV)        
\par               _Z Particle_ (91.16 GeV)         
\par               _Electron_       (0.5 GeV)      ,   
\par               _Electron-Neutrino_  (0.000015 GeV) 
\par 
\par 12.  Identify the following philosophers, FTP each.   
\par 1. In "The Nature of Judgment," he argued for a theory of truth that implies the independent existence of the physical world.      
\par Answer:  George Edward _Moore_
\par 2. A figure in the development of logicism and logical atomism, he was also a mathematician and, later, a political activist. He's best known for co-writing "Principia Mathematica" with Alfred North Whitehead.      
\par Answer:  Bertrand Arthur William _Russell_ 
\par 3. His works "Language, Truth, and Logic" and "The Foundations of Empirical Knowledge" are among the best known of the Vienna Circle of logical positivists.       
\par Answer:  Sir Alfred Jules _Ayer_ 
\par 
\par 13.  You're the tournament director for ACF Regionals. Fifteen teams are signed up to participate.  For ten points each :  
\par 1. If you were to run a full round-robin, how many games total would have to be played?
\par A: _105_        (15 teams *14 games each / 2 = 105)
\par 2. If you had all the extra packets you needed, but only six rooms, how many rounds would this tournament last?   
\par Answer:  _18_ 
\par 3. Instead of 15 teams, you decide to get a house team of new players together to make a sixteenth team, and divide the field 
into two brackets.  (Teams might be unhappy at you for this, but you'll give them other games somehow.) How many games would it take to play this tournament out?
\par Answer:  _56_ (16 teams * 7 games each / 2 = 56) 
\par 
\par 14.  And now for an evil bonus. Answer these questions about evil in world religion and mythology FTP each.  
\par 1. In Zoroastrian mythology, Ahura Mazda will at the end of time triumph over this embodiment of evil.   
\par Answer:  _Ahriman_ 
\par 2. The Islamic equivalent of the Christian Satan, he and his legion of jinn try to tempt humans to sin.   Answer:  _Iblis_ or  _aduw_-Allah  
\par 3.  This abyss is located far below Hades in Greek mythology - it is where the Titans were sent by Zeus.    
\par Answer:  _Tartarus_ 
\par 
\par 15.  Identify these figures in modern cosmology, FTP each.  
\par 1. This Dutch physicist applied relativity theory to argue that the universe was expanding, contradicting Einstein and winning him over.   
\par Answer:  Willem _de Sitter_ 
\par 2. He expressed de Sitter's model in mathematical terms, and also detected distant redshifting galaxies, strengthening de Sitter's theory.  
\par Answer:  Edwin _Hubble_ 
\par 3. Their discovery of background radiation in 1965 allowed scientists to guess 15 billion years for the age of the universe, and the universe was continuing to expand.  For 5 each, name them.   
\par Answer:  Arno _Penzias_ and Robert _Wilson_ 
\par 
\par 16.  Identify the terms associated with religious holidays, FTP each.  
\par 1. From the Greek for "manifestation," it is one of the three oldest Christian festival, and celebrates the recognition of the Christ by the Magi.      
\par Answer:  _Epiphany_ 
\par 2.  The Christian equivalent of the Jewish "Shavuot," originally to celebrate revelation of the Law of Moses, it is also called "Whitsunday."
\par Answer:  _Pentecost_  
\par 3. For Lutherans, Reformation Day, supposedly the day Luther posted his 95 Theses, falls on the same day as this now-secularized holiday.
\par Answer:  _October 31_ or _Halloween_ 
\par 
\par 17.  Identify these economists FTP each.  
\par 1. In his 1930 work "Treatise on Money," which anticipated his better known work five years later, he proposed that no wage was so low that it would eliminate unemployment.  
\par Answer:  John Maynard _Keynes_ 
\par 2. Perhaps an antecedent to Keynes, he developed his "acceleration principle," in whi
ch he theorized that consumer demand fluctuations destabilize investor demand. He also developed the concept of workable competition in "Competition as a Dynamic Process." 
\par Answer:  John Maurice _Clark_ 
\par 3. A protege of Keynes, he was the father of "national income accounting," which tracked government revenue and expenditures, he won the 1984 Nobel Prize.   
\par Answer:  Sir Richard _Stone_ 
\par 
\par 18.  Answer these questions about the War of Austrian Succession, for the stated number of points. 
\par 1.  For 5 points each: The whole thing started when this Prussian Emperor invaded this Hapsburg-held province. 
\par Answer:  _Fredrick II_  , _Silesia_
\par 2.  For 10 : A different war, one with a more interesting name, merged into the War of the Austrian Succession, involving Britain and Spain. FTP name this war. 
\par Answer:  _War of Jenkins' Ear_
\par 3.  For 5 points each: The war of Austrian Succession was ended by this treaty in this year. 
\par Answer:  Treaty of _Aix-la-Chapelle_ , _1748_
\par 
\par 19.  Answer these questions about the Falkand Islands and the war fought over them FTP each. 
\par 1.  For ten points for being exact, and for five within 10 years, in what year did Britain first take posession of the Falklands? 
\par Answer:  _1833_   (5 pts. for 1823-1843)
\par 2. The Argentinians prefer a different name for the Falklands. Which name? 
\par Answer:  _Malvinas_ Islands
\par 3. While the Falklands War was a huge sucess for Thatcher's Britain, it helped bring down the military junta then ruling Argentina, headed by, FTP, whom? 
\par Answer:  Gen. Antonio _Galtieri_
\par 
\par 20.  30-20-10 Name the year from clues. 
\par 30 : Kinsey Report on Human Sexuality published ; World Health Organization founded. 
\par 20 : The transistor was invented ; the Orgzanization of American States is founded. 
\par 10 : Mahatma Gandhi assassinated ; Strom Thurmond wins electoral votes as a presidential candidate. 
\par Answer:  _1948_
\par 
\par 21.  Answer these questions about the various Granrt administation scandals, for the stated number of points. 
\par 1.  For 10 : Vice President Colfax was brought down by the railroad-financing scandal involving this French-based bank.
\par Answer:  Credit _Mobilier_
\par 2.  For 10 : Grant's private secretary, he drew up the treaty, which failed in the Senate, to annex the Dominican Republic. He was a player in just about every scandal of that period. 
\par Answer:  Orville _Babcock_
\par 3.  For 5 points each : This pair of business tycoons were able to trick Grant into helping them temporarily corner the gold market. Name them for 5 points each. 
\par Answer:  Jay _Gould_ and  Jim _Fisk_
\par }{\f4\fs20\cf6 
\par Identify these Senate Democrats - from 1968 - FTP each. 
\par 1.  This Connecticut Senator, an Orthodox Jew, greatly angered Richard Daley at the Democratic National Convention by decrying the "Gestapo tactics" of the police outside the floor. 
\par Answer:  Abraham _Ribicoff_
\par 2.  He was chosen as Hubert Humphrey's running mate in 1968. 
\par Answer:  Edmund _Muskie_
\par c. This Montanan was Senate Majority Leader, and largely unable to fill LBJ's big shoes in that role. 
\par Answer:  Mike _Mansfield_}{\f4\fs20 
\par }{\f4\fs20\cf6 
\par Given the art museum, name the architect five points each. 
\par 1. Tate Gallery                                                       
\par Answer:  James _Stirling_
\par       b. Van Gogh Museum                                           A: 
\par Gerritt Thomas _Rietveld_
\par    c. Amon-Carter Museum of Western Art            A: Philip C. 
\par _Johnson_
\par    d. The glass pyramid at the Louvre                   A: I.M. _Pei_
\par    e.  Yale University Gallery                                    A:  
\par Louis Isadore _Kahn_
\par    f.  Guggenheim Museum                                        A: Frank 
\par Lloyd _Wright_
\par 
\par [Arts - Painting]
\par  Given the "colorful" painting, name the artist, 5 points each. 
\par    a. "The Yellow Curtain"                                        A: 
\par Henri _Matisse_
\par    b.  "Woman in Black Stockings"                      A: Pierre 
\par _Bonddard_
\par   c. "The Blue Vase"                                                A: 
\par Paul _Cezanne_
\par   d. Painting With A Black Arch"                           A: Wassily 
\par _Kandinsky_
\par  e. "Composition In Red, Yellow, and Blue"     A: Piet _Mondrian_
\par  f. "Red-Green Broders"                                         A: Paul 
\par _Klee_
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }{\f4\fs20\cf6 [Current Events / Miscellaneous] Answer these questions about the
\par developing world of cyberspace law, FTP each.  
\par a. This Michigan student created tremendous controversy and was arrested
\par in 1993 when he posted to USENET a torture story about a classmate,
\par "Pamela's Ordeal."  A: Jake _Baker_ 
\par b. This immigration law firm is widely credited/blamed for the invention
\par of "spamming" USENET with advertisments.  A: _Canter & Siegel_ 
\par c. This Internet political source of the moment  is currently being sued
\par for libel by former White House aide Sidney Blumenthal.  A: Matt _Drudge_
\par 
\par [Pop Culture - Sports] Given the name of a street on which a Major League
\par home run or foul ball might end up, name the Major League Baseball stadium
\par that ball would have come from.  Five points each, with a five point bonus
\par for all five correct.  Landsdowne Street      A: _Fenway Park_ 
\par Elysian Park Avenue   A: _Dodger Stadium_ 
\par Waveland Avenue     A: _Wrigley Field_ 
\par Trumbull Avenue      A: _Tiger Stadium_ 
\par Eutaw Street              A: _Oriole Park_ or _Camden Yards_ 
\par 
\par 
\par [Literature] Given the not-so-heroic male character created by George
\par Bernard Shaw, identify the play in which he appears, 10 points each.
\par Hector Hushabye    _Heartbreak House_ 
\par John Tanner    _Man and Superman_ 
\par Larry Doyle    _John Bull's Other Island_ 
\par 
\par 4.  Answer these questions about current happenings in
\par Northern Ireland.   This former U.S. Senator presided over multi-party
\par peace talks in October 1997.   A: George _Mitchell_ 
\par This leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, after waffling, has been a
\par participant in the talks.   A: David _Trimble_ 
\par This head of the outlawed Loyalist Voluntary Force, a pro-British
\par paramilitary group, was killed in prison in late December.   A: Billy
\par _Wright_ 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\cf6 
\par 
\par }}