{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}{\f165\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f166\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f168\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f169\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f170\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f171\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f172\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f4\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}
{\s19\qc \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr1999\mo12\dy10\hr20\min29}
{\revtim\yr2000\mo7\dy19\hr15\min48}{\version4}{\edmins13}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords4503}{\nofchars25672}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws31527}{\vern8247}}\margl1440\margr1200 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs36 Tossups by Harvard for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 1.  It is perhaps inappropriately named, because there are a great m
any solutions to the problem posed, and there is now very little controversy over the answer. Many solutions make use of the relativistic Doppler shift, but perhaps the simplest explanation is that one of the observers feels an acceleration and the other 
does not, and this acceleration breaks the symmetry in the problem. For ten points name this apparent paradox arising from Einstein's theory of special relativity, so named because each of two siblings apparently should age less than the other. 
\par ANSWER: _TWIN_ Paradox
\par 
\par 2.  When Vladimir Horowitz married Wally, the daughter of Arturo Toscanini, this composer wrote a set of four Italian madrigals to celebrate their wedding. Aside from his orchestral works and operas such as "Szekely fono", he collaborated with
 Bela Bartok on a collection of folksongs. FTP, name this composer of such works as the Marosszek Dances and Hary Janos. 
\par ANSWER: Zoltan _KODALY_ (koh-die-ee)
\par 
\par 3.  This battle would have never been fought if the Persians had heeded the advice of Memnon of 
Rhodes, who advocated a scorched-earth policy which would force the Macedonians to withdraw for lack of supplies. This insulted the Persian dignity, and they opted to stand and fight, selecting a strong defensive position behind a river. However, it didn'
t matter, as the phalanx proved victorious anyway. For ten points, name this 334 BC battle, Alexander the Great's first victory in Asia Minor. 
\par ANSWER: _GRANICUS_
\par 
\par 4.  Their initial education is in elementary mathematics, music, and poetry, accompanied by p
hysical training. After this comes two or three years of military service, followed by ten years of learning mathematical science.  The best of these then learn five years of training in dialectic, and then finally the best of these receive a full fifteen
 years of practical political training. This describes the education of, for ten points, what ideal ruler described in Plato's _Republic_? 
\par ANSWER: _PHILOSOPHER KINGS_
\par 
\par 5.  Some said her nickname came from her help to victims of misfortune, and others from 
her own hard-luck experiences. Many believe, however, that this supposed romantic interest of Wild Bill Hickok and actual wife of Clinton Burke got her nickname from warnings that offending her was to court the event that usually precedes her Christian na
me. FTP, identify this expert rifle- and horsewoman who traveled with Wild West shows in the 1890s. 
\par ANSWER: _CALAMITY JANE_ or Martha Jane _CANARY_ or Martha _JANE BURKE_
\par 
\par 6.  The date on which it struck was nicknamed "Black Thursday," and had it occurred 
ten years later, it probably could have affected the stock market. Fortunately, though, this particular disaster happened in 1988, well before its target had reached its present size. It worked by repeatedly spawning processes on the victimized machine, c
a
using its performance to slow to a crawl, and consisted of a two parts: a 99-line bootstrap C program which was transmitted first to the target computer, which then pulled over the rest of the program from the original computer.  For ten points, what was 
this non-virus which attacked the Internet on November 3, 1988? 
\par Answer: the Internet _WORM_
\par 
\par 7.  Koch and his diplomat friend Gentz turned him into a strict advocate of the European balance of power. To that end, he counterbalanced Russia by maintaining an
 equal France. His other aim, counterbalancing Prussia, was achieved by building up his own nation's power. Name this Austrian Prince who triumphed at the Congress of Vienna. 
\par Ans: Klemens _METTERNICH_
\par 
\par 8.  As a youth, he was an excellent caricaturist but 
was converted to landscape painting by his mentor, Eugene Boudin. At the age of 19 he went to Paris to study at the Atelier Suisse (ah-teh-lee-ay sweess), where he became friends with Camille Pissarro. In 1871 he moved to Argenteuil, where some of the mos
t famous paintings not only of his, but of the entire movement of which he was part, were painted. For ten points name this painter, one of whose works gave the name to the Impressionist movement. 
\par ANSWER: Claude _MONET_ (not to be confused with Edouard Manet)
\par 
\par 9.  (Warning: TWO answers required!) The first meson to be discovered containing the charm quark, it was discovered almost simultaneously by teams at the S
tanford Linear Accelerator and Brookhaven National Laboratories, led by Burton Richter and Samuel Ting, both of whom received the Nobel Prize in 1976 for the discovery. For ten points, give both names for this meson, one name the English letter often used
 to denote current density, and the other the Greek letter often used for the wave function. 
\par ANSWER: the _J_ / _PSI_ meson (both required)
\par 
\par 10.  She persuaded the daughers of Pelias that she could rejuvenate him if they cut him to pieces, and when Pelias w
as dead, her allies put Acastus on the throne. She murdered her half brother Apsyrtus, and later her two sons by her first husband, when he left her to marry Glauce, after which she married Aegeus. When she tried to poison Theseus, she was banished from A
thens and returned to Colchis, whose king Aeetes was her father. For ten points, identify this niece of Circe and priestess of Hecate who helped her first husband Jason steal the Golden Fleece. 
\par ANSWER: _MEDEA_
\par 
\par 11.  It had to be launched at high tide to be
 successful, which meant that only twenty-three days were available for practice. It was so successful, though, that a mere thirteen days after it began, it had achieved its objective. Devised by MacArthur as a plan to break out of the Pusan perimeter, it
 was a brilliant success, as the invasion behind enemy lines allowed the South Korean forces to advance nearly the length of Korea in less than a month. For ten points, what was this invasion which commenced on September 15, 1950? 
\par Answer: _INCHON_ invasion
\par 
\par 12.  Von Koch showed that it was closely related to the prime number theorem, but even when Hadamard and de la Vallee Poussin indepedently proved the latter in 1896, the former remained elusive. It states that the only nontrivial complex roots of the zet
a function have real part equal to 1/2.  Hilbert posed it as his eighth out of 23 problems, and with the acceptance of Wiles' proof of Fermat's theorem, it is the most notorious unsolved problem in mathematics. For ten points identify this conjecture, nam
ed for the German mathematician whose work in complex analysis led him to pose it in the late ninteenth century. 
\par ANSWER: _RIEMANN_ Hypothesis (accept also: "Riemann Zeta Hypothesis")
\par 
\par 13.  George Bernard Shaw, Gustave Flaubert, They Might Be Giants, Thomas
 Shadwell, Prosper Merimee, Balzac, and Moliere were among those who wrote versions of the story. Alexander Pushkin's short verse drama "The Stone Guest" closely followed his story as well. The first literary account was in Tirso de Molina's "El Burlador 
de Sevilla," but none of these accounts are as famous as Byron's epic satire or the great Mozart opera. For ten points name the common protagonist, the famous libertine of Seville. 
\par ANSWER: _DON JUAN_ (prompt on "Don Giovanni")
\par 
\par 14.  The losing army was def
eated primarily by desertions, as many of the Turkmen horsemen deserted at the beginning of the battle, and as the commander ordered a retreat at the end, the reserve, led by Andronicus Ducas, a bitter rival of the army's commander, deserted, leaving the 
rest of the army to be decisively crushed. As a result, Romanus IV was captured by the Seljuk Turks, led by Alp Arslan. For ten points, identify this 1071 battle which led to the Byzantine loss of Asia Minor. 
\par ANSWER: _MANZIKERT_ 
\par 
\par 15.  The quote "Son coeur
 est un luth suspendu:/ Sito^t qu'on le touche il re'sonne" from De Be'ranger, meaning "His heart is a suspended lute: / Whenever one touches it, it resounds," is placed at the beginning of this short story. Its narrator is visiting an old friend in respo
n
se to a letter stating that he had a mental disorder and desired to see him. The climax comes when, while the narrator and his friend read a dragon story, the friend's dead sister Madeline enters the room, and the narrator flees to see a nearby tarn swall
ow up the title building, of FTP, which Poe short story? 
\par ANSWER: The _FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER_
\par 
\par 16.  Formed from a glycerol base with only two hydrocarbon chains instead of the usual three, they naturally arrange themselves into bi-layers with the hydro
philic heads all pointing outwards and the hydrophobic tails on the inside. This ideal membrane configuration consists of, for ten points, what molecule whose third constituent is often a water-seeking phosphate group? 
\par ANSWER: _PHOSPHOLIPID_
\par 
\par 17.  The tit
le character fires one bullet into his gambling friend Jeff, one on a prison guard, two on a slave auctioneer and a plantation owner, and one on mysterious critters, which, like all the others, are only a part of his fevered imagination. Eventually he is 
h
unted down and killed by the natives of the island on which he had set himself up as ruler, as the drums in the background continue to beat incessantly. For ten points, name this 1920 play by Eugene O'Neill, sometimes called the first expressionist play i
n America. 
\par ANSWER: The _EMPEROR JONES_
\par 
\par 18.  Thomas McKean in 1781. Matthew Thomas sometime after November 4, 1776.  Oliver Wolcott, George Wythe, Richard Henry Lee, and Elbridge Gerry in August and September of that year. William Williams, Cha
rles Carroll, and Samuel Chase on August 2. Most every other member of the Second Continental Congress, including John Hancock, on July 4, 1776. FTP, what did each of these people do at those times? 
\par ANSWER: _SIGN THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE_ (or equivalent)
\par 
\par 19.  Thought in the Middle Ages to be reflections of heavenly warriors, and often accompanied by cracking sounds, no one knows exactly why they form in the various patterns that they do, including diffuse, pulsating, curtains, and arcs. Of course, 
the immediate cause is known: excitation of oxygen atoms caused by the solar wind. It's not surprising, then, that their activity correlates strongly with sunspot activity. For ten points, what is the scientific name for these "northern lights"? 
\par Answer: _AURORA BOREALIS_ (prompt on "northern lights")
\par 
\par 20.  Each of its 360 units was named for a seed, tree, flower, fruit, animal, or tool. These 360 were organized into groups of 30, each consisting of 3 decades of 10 units. It went into effect on 1 Vendemiair
e, in the year 1, corresponding to September 22, 1792. FTP, identify this calendar, whose other months include Brumaire and Thermidor. 
\par ANSWER: French _REPUBLICAN CALENDAR_ or _REVOLUTIONARY CALENDAR_
\par 
\par 21.  The Akashi Straits Bridge between it and Honshu w
ill be completed in 1998, linking Tokushima Prefecture with Osaka and Kobe. It is composed of four prefectures, the other three being Ehime, Kochi, and Kagawa, Japan's smallest prefecture. For ten points, what is this smallest of the four
\par islands that make up Japan? 
\par ANSWER: _SHIKOKU_
\par 
\par 22.  During a 1941 subway ride, he needed to come up with an idea for a story, so he looked into a collection of Gilbert and Sullivan plays he had with him. He saw a picture of the Grenadier Guards in Iolanthe, which led him 
to soliders, to military society, to feudalism, and to the breakup of the Roman Empire. When he reached John Campbell's office, he told Campbell he was planning a story about the breakup of the Galatic Empire. FTP, identify the author who thus accounted f
or the idea behind his Foundation series. 
\par ANSWER: Isaac _ASIMOV_
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs24 

\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
23.  At Stanford, he studied marine biology, and later led a biological expedition to the Galapagos Islands, which he recounted in_ The Sea of Cortez_ with E. F. Ricketts. He writes of the N
azi occupation of a Scandinavian village in _The Moon is Down_, an account of a tour of America with his dog in _Travels with Charley_, and of the Mexican peasants Kino and Juana in _The Pearl_. FTP, identify this Salinas-born author. 
\par ANSWER: John _STEINBECK_
\par 
\par 24.  It appears in the words "bank" and "uncle", though not with its usual spelling. Like m and n, it's nasal, but unlike m and n, is [+high] and [+back], since it is produced in the velar region. It's most commonly found in English at the end of pre
sent progressive verb forms. For ten points, what is the name for this phoneme, usually spelled "ng" in English orthography? 
\par ANSWER: _ENGMA_
\par 
\par 25.  Characterized by a disconnectedness from the culture and society in which they live and frequently an inability to act decisively in key situations, they are nonetheless often brilliant and high-minded young men whose futures seem all too promising. 
E
xamples include Rudin, Oblomov, and arguably also Count Alexey Vronsky, but more famous are the earlier heroes such as Lermontov's Pechorin and Pushkin's Eugene Onegin. For ten points give the common two-word phrase that describes this ubiquitous protagon
ist of the 19th-century Russian novel. 
\par ANSWER: _SUPERFLUOUS MAN_ or _SUPERFLUOUS MEN_
\par 
\par 26.  She is known only by a name indicating her relationship to her son. A professional poet, her commissioned poems were frequently anthologized during her lifetime. Sh
e was the second wife of Fujiwara no Kaneie, and her major work is a three-volume chronicle of their love affair. Name this relative of Lady Murasaki and mother of Michitsuna. 
\par ANSWER: the _GOSSAMER_ lady (accept _MICHITSUNA'S MOTHER_ before the last phrase)
\par 
\par 27.  This teacher of rhetoric from Cidnos is the only character in Act 2, Scene 3 of Shakespeare's _Julius Caesar_. He enters, reading a letter, and then exits to wait for Caesar, hoping to give him the letter as a petitioner.  FTP, identify this man w
ho wrote "Caesar, beware of Brutus, take heed of Cassius..." in his letter warning Caesar of the conspiracy against him. 
\par ANSWER: _ARTEMIDORUS_
\par 
\par 28.  The trial of John Doyle Lee, leader of its participants, in Beaver in 1875 resulted in a hung jury, but an
 1877 retrial led to Lee's execution at the site of this event. Sparked by a party of 137 emigrants camped 40 miles from Cedar City and by government plans to send troops into Utah, it occured while the attackers, after promising safe conduct, led the una
rmed immigrants toward Cedar City. FTP, identify this 1857 massacre carried out by Mormon settlers and Paiute Indians, in which everyone but the children in the emigrant group were killed in an ambush. 
\par ANSWER: _MOUNTAIN MEADOWS_ massacre
\par 
\par 29.  A bishop of 
Ypres at his 1638 death, this Dutch theologian studied the impact of Lutheran and Calvinist doctrine while at the University of Louvrain, and supported a return to Augustinian views. For ten points, identify this author of Augustinus, which became the bas
is for the doctrine named for him which incorporated aspects of Protestant views into Catholicism and was later declared heretical by the church. 
\par ANSWER: Cornelius _JANSEN_
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs24 

\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
\page }{\f4\fs36 Bonuses by Harvard for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{\f4\fs20 
\par 1.  Answer the following about participants in an enduring literary conceit, 5-10-15:
\par 1.  For 5 points: Author whose novel "Ship of Fools" appeared in 1962.
\par Answer: Katherine Anne _PORTER_
\par 2.  For 10 points: Artist whose famous "Narrenschiff" from the last decade of the 15th century features a bibulous imp and a lecherous monk.
\par Answer: Hieronymus _BOSCH_
\par 3.  For 15 points: German whose 1494 "Stultifera navis" electrified the emerging business of bookprinting.
\par Answer: Sebastian _BRANDT_
\par 
\par 2. Name the scientist, 30-20-10.
\par 30: He was the first to observe and record the alpha-helix secondary structure of polypeptide chains.
\par 20: His study of molecular bonding and development of the theory of electronegativity won him a Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1954.
\par 10: He won another Nobel Prize in 1962, this time in Peace, for speaking out against atomic testing.
\par Answer: Linus _PAULING_
\par 
\par 3.  Answer the following questions about the Third Punic War for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For ten points, name the commander of the Roman forces which destroyed Carthage, the adopted grandson of the victorious Roman general in the 2nd Punic War.
\par Answer: Publius _SCIPIO AEMILIANUS_ Aemilianus Africanus Numantinus
\par (accept also _SCIPIO AFRICANUS MINOR_ or _SCIPIO AFRICANUS THE YOUNGER_)
\par 2. For five points, whose repeated denunciations of Carthage provided much of the momentum behind the Third Punic War?
\par Answer: Marcius Porcius _CATO THE ELDER_
\par 3. For a final fifteen points, the excuse for Rome to declare war on Carthage came from a series of disputes between Carthage and what Roman ally?
\par Answer: _NUMIDIA_ (accept also _MASSINISSA_, the king of Numidia)
\par 
\par 4.  Answer the following questions about point-set topology for the stated number of points each.
\par 1. For five, this term denotes a set containing all of its limit points.
\par Answer: _CLOSED_
\par 2. For ten, the Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem and the Heine-Borel property are the two common ways of showing this quality of a metric space.
\par Answer: _COMPACT_ness
\par 3. For fifteen, in a given metric space, if for any two distinct points A and B there exist two disjoint open sets U and V such that U contains A and V contains B, the space is said to have this attribute.
\par Answer: _HAUSDORFF_
\par 
\par 5.  Identify the speaker of each of the following Civil War quotations, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points: "I beg to present you as a Christmas gift the city of Savannah, with one hundred and fifty heavy guns and plenty of ammunition; also about twenty-five thousand bales of cotton."
\par Answer: William Tecumseh _SHERMAN_
\par 2.  For 10 points: "May God have mercy on General Lee, for I will have none."
\par Answer: "Fighting" Joe _HOOKER_
\par 3.  For 15 points: "Oh men, there is Jackson standing like a stone wall!  Rally behind the Virginians" or some variant thereof.
\par Answer: Barnard _BEE_
\par 
\par 6.  Given a Shakespearean quote, name the *character* who speaks it for ten points each.
\par 1. "Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player / That struts and frets his hour upon the stage / And then is heard no more."
\par Answer: _MACBETH_
\par 2. "O brave new world, that has such people in't!"
\par Answer: _MIRANDA_ (from "The Tempest")
\par 3. "He that filches from me my good name / Robs me of that which not enriches him / And makes me poor indeed."
\par Answer: _IAGO_ (from "Othello")
\par 
\par 7.  Answer the following questions about HTML for 15 points each.
\par 1. For fifteen points, what character is used to denote the beginnning of a character entity (for example, the copyright symbol)?
\par Answer: _AMPERSAND_
\par 2. For fifteen points, what extension to HTML, partially supported in both Navigator 4.0 and IE 4.0, allows web page designers to specify style information in a separate document?
\par Answer: _C_ascading _S_tyle _S_heets
\par 
\par 8.  Answer the following about love in classical literature, 5-10-15.
\par 1.  For 5 points: This Roman poet subtly satirized Virgil's Georgics, styling himself as "praeceptor amoris" in a faux-didactic bawdy tone that may have had something to do with his exile.
\par Answer: _OVID_ (Publius Ovidius Naso)
\par 2.  For 10 points: Along with Cinna, Gallus, and Calvus, this poet lead the neotericist vanguard in the middle of the first century BCE.  Recent research has proven that his poems about Lesbia's sparrow, though charmin
g on the surface, are really concerned with his own penis.
\par Answer: _CATULLUS_ (Gaius Valerius Catullus)
\par 3.  For 15: This Greek scholar instructed Virgil in grammar and provided Gallus with an anthology of mythological "Erotica Pathemata" or "Sexual Sufferings" in the hope of inspiring the poet to write elegy.
\par Answer: _PARTHENIUS_
\par 
\par 9.  Answer these questions about the Wars of the Roses for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5 points: All or nothing, which side had the white rose and which the red?
\par Answer: white = _YORK_, red = _LANCASTER_
\par 2.  For 10 points: After the Earl of Warwick showed the wrong face to Queen Margaret's troops, his troops deserted him; Margaret's troops went on to pillage the town and abbey of the same name.  Because of this lapse of di
scipline, the City of London warned Margaret that it would not allow her troops in without a guarantee of good behavior, effectively buying time for Edward of York.  Name the battle.
\par Answer: the _SECOND_ battle of _SAINT ALBANS_
\par 3.  For 15 points: In this 
March 1471 battle, Edward IV's forces met Warwick's in this locality, now part of northern London.  Warwick, who fought on foot to avert suspicions that he would flee, was killed while fleeing the collapse of his left and center.
\par Answer: _BARNET_
\par 
\par 10.  Answer the following about philosophy, for the stated number of points:
\par 1.  For 5 points: In 1903, this philosopher and mathematician was elected to the Royal Society for his Treatise on Universal Algebra.  A fellow of Trinity College, he became an advisor to and colleague of Bertrand Russell.
\par Answer: Alfred North _WHITEHEAD_
\par 2.  For 5 points: Whitehead and Russell found that their projected second books overlapped, so they decided to work together, producing what volume?
\par Answer: _PRINCIPIA MATHEMATICA_
\par 3.  Fo
r 10 points: Whitehead took a philosophical bent later in life.  One fundamental idea of his was that philosophy needed to replace the mind/body dichotomy, which he saw as leading inevitably to Hume's skepticism.  Who, in his opinion, was responsible for 
the dichotomy?
\par Answer: Rene _DESCARTES_
\par 4.  For 10 points: Whitehead replaced "substance metaphysics" with the metaphysical category of an actual occasion.  What did he call the philosophy that he developed around this idea?
\par Answer: _PHILOSOPHY OF ORGANISM_ (do not accept: process philosophy--he didn't call it that)
\par 
\par 11.  Answer these questions about electric charge for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For five, who originally applied the terms "positive" and "negative" to charge?
\par Answer: Benjamin _FRANKLIN_
\par 2. If a magnetic field is applied perpendicular to the direction of a current flow, the current carriers will feel a force to the same side regardless of which sign of charge they carry. For ten points, name this phenomenon, which allowed scientists to di
scover that current in wires is actually carried by negative electrons.
\par Answer: _HALL_ Effect
\par 3.  A 1980 study of the Hall effect in semiconductors at extremely low temperatures showed that the Hall voltage is actually quantized because the ratio of the Hal
l voltage to the current can only be an integer multiple of Planck's constant divided by the square of the electron charge. For fifteen points, name the German scientist, a 1985 Nobel Prize winner, who discovered this phenomenon which is now used to stand
ardize electrical resistances. 
\par Answer: Klaus _VON KLITZING_
\par 
\par 12.  Lyndon Johnson defeated Barry Goldwater in 1964, 486 electoral votes to 52, winning all but six states.  For 5 points each, identify the six states Goldwater won.
\par Answer: _ARIZONA_, _LOUISIANA_, _MISSISSIPPI_, _ALABAMA_, _GEORGIA_,
\par _SOUTH CAROLINA_
\par 
\par 13.  (Pencil and paper might be handy!) Lorena and John Wayne want to go on a vacation, but Lorena wants to go to the Phillippines, while John Wayne wants to go to Hollywood. So they decide to set
tle it by each simultaneously picking a destination. If they pick different places, their payoffs will each be zero; if they both pick the Phillippines, Lorena's payoff will be 6 and John Wayne's 4; if they both pick Hollywood, John Wayne's payoff will be
 6 and Lorena's 4.
\par 1. For ten points, how many pure-strategy Nash equilibria exist in this game?
\par Answer: _TWO_
\par 2. For five points, what kind of equilibrium is the mixed-strategy Nash equilibrium?
\par Answer: _UNSTABLE_
\par 3. For fifteen points, with what probability will Lorena choose the Phillippines in the mixed-strategy equilibrium?
\par Answer: _3/5_ or _60%_ or equivalent
\par 
\par 14.  Given an ascending pair of notes, identify the simple interval between them for ten points each.
\par 1. E flat to G flat
\par Answer: _MINOR THIRD_ (prompt on "third"; do not accept "major third." Accept "augmented second" reluctantly.)
\par 2.  D to B
\par Answer: _MAJOR SIXTH_ (prompt on "sixth"; do not accept "minor sixth." Accept "diminished seventh" reluctantly.)
\par 3.  C sharp to G
\par Answer: _TRITONE_ or _DIMINISHED FIFTH_ or _AUGMENTED FOURTH_ (prompt on "diabolus in musica")
\par 
\par 15.  For ten points each, answer the following questions about the Dreyfus affair:
\par 1. To which nation was Dreyfus accused of selling military secrets?
\par Answer: _GERMANY_
\par 2. Who did the Chief of Army Counterintelligence conclude was guilty of the original crime, not Dreyfus?
\par Answer: Major Marie-Charles-Ferdinand _ESTERHAZY_
\par 3. Name the aforementioned counterintelligence chief.
\par Answer: Colonel Georges _PICQUART_
\par 
\par 16.  Answer the following questions about the hypothesized meteor impact responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs:
\par 1. For ten points each, the extremely high concentration of what element in the rocks at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary provides strong evidence that the rocks are of extraterrestrial origin?
\par Answer: _IRIDIUM_
\par 2. For fifteen points, at what site in Italy did Walter Alvarez first discover the so-called "iridium spike"?
\par Answer: _GABBIO_
\par 3. For a final five points, how many million years ago (within five million) did the hypothesized impact occur?
\par Answer: _66.4_ (accept 61.4-71.4)
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the writer of each Homer-related poem for 15 points from a quote, and 5 if you need the work's title.
\par 1. For 15: "Much have I travelled in the realms of gold / And many goodly states and kingdoms seen"
\par For 5: "On First Looking Into Chapman's Homer"
\par Answer: John _KEATS_
\par 2. For 15: "There's a blind man here with a brow / As big and white as a cloud / And all we fiddlers, from highest to lowest, / Writers of music and tellers of stories, / Sit at his feet, / And hear him sing of the fall of Troy"
\par For 5: _Spoon River Anthology_
\par Answer: Edgar Lee _MASTERS_
\par 
\par 18.  Answer the following about Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 classic, _Vertigo_, for ten points apiece.
\par 1. What was the working title of _Vertigo_?
\par Answer: _FROM AMONG THE DEAD_
\par 2. Kim Novak recalled that Hitchcock used what to get the timing of certain scenes "exactly so"?
\par Answer: a _METRONOME_
\par 3. Who did Hitchcock originally want to play Madeleine, but became pregnant and had to be replaced by Kim Novak?
\par Answer: Vera _MILES_
\par 
\par 19.  Answer the following questions about the Songhai Empire for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For five points, the Songhai Empire flourished in what modern-day nation?
\par Answer: _MALI_
\par 2. For ten points, around 1100 AD, the Songhai capital was established in what city?
\par Answer: _GAO_
\par 3. For fifteen points, the Songhai empire was eventually conquered by what firearm-using nation?
\par Answer: _MOROCCO_
\par 
\par 20.  Answer the following questions about scientific fraud for ten points apiece.
\par 1. His 1865 experimental results were so perfect that scientists believe this man doctored his heredity data.
\par Answer: Gregor _MENDEL_
\par 2. This atomist reported numerous experimental findings in 1804 and 1805 that no later chemists have been able to reproduce. 
\par Answer: John _DALTON_
\par 3. William T. Summerlin at the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research did this to white skin grafts to falsify the results of skin-transplant experiments on mice in the mid-1970s.
\par Answer: _colored them black_ with a felt-tip pen [or equivalent]
\par 
\par 21.  Identify the author from works, 30-20-10:
\par 30: _God's Grace_, _The Tenants_, _Dubin's Lives_
\par 20: _The Magic Barrel_, _The Assistant_, _A New Life_
\par 10: _The Fixer_, _The Natural_
\par Answer: Bernard _MALAMUD_
\par 
\par 22.  Identify the person, 30-20-10:
\par 30: He was killed while flying in Alaska with Wiley Post, and wrote _The Illiterate Digest_.
\par 20: He joined the Ziegfeld Follies in 1915, and his act consisted of swinging a lasso while commenting on politics and society.
\par 10: He once said "I don't make jokes, I just watch the government and report the facts."
\par Answer: Will _ROGERS_
\par 
\par 23.  For any conserved quantity, there exists a quantum mechanical symmetry which gives rise to it. Given a quantity, name the associated operation under which the Hamiltonian is invariant, for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For five, angular momentum.
\par Answer: _ROTATIONS_ in space
\par 2. For ten, energy.
\par Answer: _TIME_ translations
\par 3. For fifteen, charge.
\par Answer: quantum _PHASE_
\par 
\par 24.  Answer the following questions about _The Glass Menagerie_ for the stated number of points:
\par 1.  For 5 points: Which character owns the Glass Menagerie?
\par Answer: Laura _WINGFIELD_
\par 2.  For 10 points: Who is the gentleman caller?
\par Answer: Jim _O'CONNOR_
\par 3.  For 15 points: Which animal in the glass menagerie does Jim O'Connor break while dancing with Laura Wingfield?
\par Answer: the _UNICORN_
\par 
\par 25.  Answer the following related questions.
\par 1. For five points, what is the capital of Libya?
\par Answer: _TRIPOLI_
\par 2. For ten, if your freshman requirements are math, physics, and circuit design, what is most likely your major?
\par Answer: _ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING_ or _DOUBLE-E_
\par 3. For fifteen, what is the stage name of the lead singer of the Eels?
\par Answer: _E_
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs24 

\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
26.  Answer the following questions about Chinese geography for ten points each:
\par 1. In which province, on whose coast lie Hong Kong and Macau, is Canton located?
\par Answer: _GUANGDONG_
\par 2. This island, part of the Guangdong province, is bordered on its west by the Gulf of Tonkin.
\par Answer: _HAINAN_
\par 3. Which sea lies between the Korean Peninsula and the Shandong and Jiangsu provinces?
\par Answer: _YELLOW_ Sea
\par 
\par 27.  Name these reputed Jewish settlers of North America, from the Book of Mormon, for ten points each.
\par 1. This prophet led the tribe across the ocean to America, as told in his eponymous book.
\par Answer: _LEHI_
\par 2. The Hebrews eventually split into two groups.  Name the heathen group that forgot their beliefs and evolved into the Native Americans. 
\par Answer: _LAMANITES_
\par 3. This virtuous and industrious group built great cities, but were overcome, following the Old Testament pattern, in AD 400 by the sinful Lamanites. 
\par Answer: _NEPHITES_
\par 
\par 28.  Identify the poem from lines, 30-20-10:
\par 30: "Who hast not seen thee oft amid thy store?"
\par 20: "Hedge-crickets sing, and now, with treble soft,
\par     The redbreast whistles from a garden croft,
\par     And gathering swallows twitter in the skies."
\par 10: "Season of mist and mellow fruitfulness"
\par Answer: _TO AUTUMN_ by Keats (Note: accept _Ode to Autumn_ with a frown)
\par 
\par 29.  Answer the following questions about desegregation for ten points apiece.
\par 1. To what high school did Arkansas governor Orval Faubus send the National Guard in 1957 to prevent 9 black students from enrolling?
\par Answer: _CENTRAL_ High School
\par 2. For which air force veteran, gunned down during the 1966 March to Jackson,  did JFK send 400 Federal marshalls and 3000 troops in 1962 to allow him to attend the University of Mississippi?
\par Answer: James _MEREDITH_
\par 3. According to a Chuck Brodsky song, who was the first white player in the Negro Leagues?
\par Answer: Eddie _KLEPP_
\par 
\par 30.  Who fights whom?  Answer these questions about the pairings at Ragnarok for ten points each:
\par 1. Loki and this god fight and slay each other.
\par Answer: _HEIMDALL_
\par 2. This god is defeated, swallowed by the Fenris Wolf.
\par Answer: _ODIN_
\par 3. In retaliation this son of Odin either stabs the wolf's heart, or tears his jaws apart, depending on the account.
\par Answer: _VIDAR_
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f7\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs24 

\par }}