{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}{\f412\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f413\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f415\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f416\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f417\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 
\snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f4 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{\s20\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator The Weiner Family}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo11\dy27\hr2\min25}{\revtim\yr1999\mo11\dy27\hr2\min30}{\version2}{\edmins5}{\nofpages15}{\nofwords5761}{\nofchars32841}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws40331}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\sl360\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs36 Tossups by Iowa State for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4 
\par 1. Shortly after serving in the Mexican War he was elected to the Kentucky legislature, thus beginning his political career. When hostilities began between the Northern and Southern states he helped organize the Confederate government of Kentucky and was 
m
ade a brigadier general in the Southern army in 1862. In January, 1865 Jefferson Davis made him his Secretary of War. FTP, name this man who lost to Abraham Lincoln in the election of 1860 after serving under James Buchanan as the 14th Vice-President of t
he United States.
\par Answer:  John Cabell _Breckinridge_
\par 
\par 2. This novel is parable about the dangers of over-interpretation and the endlessly open text. Belbo performs a cabalistic reading of the internal combustion engine. Colonel Ardenti mistakes a merchant'
s delivery list for the secret plan of the Knights Templar. FTP, identify this Umberto Eco novel in which the key to the secret of the universe swings in the Saint-Martin-des-Champs.
\par Answer:  _Foucault's Pendulum_
\par 
\par 3. The world was produced of evil matter 
and is possessed by demons. God is depth and silence, alien to an aborted creation of a lower demiurge. Among its texts are the _Apocryphon of John_ and the _Pistis Sophia_, and members include Basilides and Valentinus. FTP, identify this religion whose f
ollowers, like ACF-ers, believe in the redemptive power of esoteric knowledge.
\par Answer:  _Gnosticism_
\par 
\par 4. In 1521 a French army under the Count de Foix crossed the Pyrenees and attacked Pamplona with the hopes of recovering Navarre. In 1522, a small book ent
itled Spiritual Exercises appeared. On August 15, 1534, in Saint Denis in Paris, a forty-three year old man and six followers took vows of poverty and chastity. FTP, identify the man linking these three events, whose Society of Jesus was officially establ
ished by papal bull in 1540.
\par Answer:  St. _Ignatius_ (of) _Loyola_ or Inigo _Lopez_ de Recalde
\par 
\par 5. The narrator's heart is "sick with desire / And fastened to a dying animal." He wishes he could live on as a an artificial bird of hammered gold and be an imm
ortal singer for a drowsy Emperor of a holy city. FTP, identify this William Yeats poem, whose title land "is no country for old men."
\par Answer:  "_Sailing to Byzantium_"
\par 
\par 6. The eddy within the North Atlantic gyre, it lies chiefly between 25 to 35 degrees N
orth and 40 to 70 degrees West. In spite of its name, it is actually more like an ocean desert, with the lowest amount of life of any sea water. FTP, identify this title body of water of a Jean Rhys novel, a spawning place for eels, which is named for the
 great quantities of seaweed covering it.
\par Answer:  _Sargasso Sea_
\par 
\par 7. It is a Newton-Cotes formula which is exact for all polynomials of degree less than or equal to 2, but also, unexpectedly, for degree less than or equal to 3. To use it, tak
e the value of the function at the left endpoint plus 4 times the value of the function at the center of the interval plus the value of the function at the right endpoint - then multiply the whole thing by one sixth times the difference between the right 
endpoint and the left endpoint. This is a description of, FTP, what method of integral approximation which uses parabolas as the interpolating curves?
\par Answer:  _Simpson_'s rule
\par 
\par 8. He attended the University of London where he studied engineering before beg
inning his work in the motion picture industry in 1920 designing title cards for the Famous Players-Lasky Company. In 1925 he directed his first film, _The Pleasure Garden_, and in 1926 his _The Lodger_ began his career of cinematic thrillers. FTP, name t
his director and frequent cameo whose other films include _Strangers on a Train_ and _Psycho_.
\par Answer:  Sir Alfred _Hitchcock_
\par 
\par 9. "And what I assume you shall assume, / For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you." Untitled in 1855, it consists o
f 52 sections of free verse, which in section 24 the poet proclaims, "Walt Whitman, a kosmos, of Manhattan the son." FTP, identify this poem whose first line is "I celebrate myself, and sing myself."
\par Answer:  "_Song of Myself_"
\par 
\par 10. He was told of his own 
lowly station in no uncertain terms:  "Shepherb bumpkins, wretched, shameful things, mere bellies!  We know how to tell many lies similar to the truth, and also to sing the truth when we want to."  So saying, the Muses gave him talent and commanded him to
 
write of the gods. In one of his two surviving complete epics, he recounts the story of Pandora's box, criticizes his brother Perses for running off with most of their inheritance, and describes jobs appropriate to each part of the year. FTP, name this wr
iter of _Works and Days_ and _Theogony_.
\par Answer:  _Hesiod_
\par 
\par 11. After being twice imprisoned by the French for nationalist activities in the 1930's and 1940's he rose to a leadership position in the North Vietnamese Communist Party and was a member of the c
ountry's politburo from 1955 to 1986. From 1968 to 1973 he was chief negotiator for North Vietnam at the Paris peace talks. FTP, name this co-recipient, along with Henry Kissinger, of the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize who rejected the prize, saying that "peace r
eally has not been established."
\par Answer:  Le Duc _Tho_
\par 
\par 12. Commonly applied to art and literature, this philosophical term is not a coherent doctrine but consists of reactions against essentialism, realism, and foundationalism. There is the loss of grand n
arratives which are replaced by meta-narratives. FTP, identify this term which can describe the philosophies of Foucault and Derrida, or any other formed in reaction to modern philosophy.
\par Answer:  _postmodernism_
\par 
\par 13. The retelling and completion of a story left unfinished by Chr\u142\'8e
tien de Troyes, it starts with Gahmuret's journey to the east where he fathers the infidel Feirefiz, half brother to the title character who is clothed in rags by his mother and bumps into Anfortas, the Fisher King, whom he doesn't
 recognize at first, though later he claims the Gral and heals him. FTP, identify this chivalric character of a Wolfram von Eschenbach romance, which was later made into an opera by Richard Wagner.
\par Answer:  _Parzival_
\par 
\par 14. It works by attempting to predict
 the motion from frame to frame in the temporal direction, then using discrete cosine transforms to organize the redundancy in spatial directions. The DCTs are performed in small blocks, and the collection of data is Huffman coded using fixed tables. Rece
ntly, the ISO chose Apple's Quicktime software as the basis for the forthcoming fourth revision of this standard. FTP, name this ISO standard, perhaps most popular for the ease of bootlegging that its "layer 3" audio compression provides.
\par Answer:  _MPEG_ or _moving picture experts group_
\par 
\par 15. It was Terentius Varro's day to lead the troops. The other consul, Paulus Aemilius supposedly promised Fabius Maximus that he would try to prevent any hasty engagements, but ended up dying in the fight. As Hannibal's ce
nter retreated, the Romans charged forward and were encircled as the wings flanked them. FTP, name this 216 BCE battle of the Second Punic War,  which crushed the Roman army.
\par Answer:  _Cannae_
\par 
\par 16. Only five out of the approximately fifty pieces were given names by their composer, and three of those names were "Venetian Gondola Song." Others have picked up nicknames such as "Hunting Song," "Spring Song," and "The Bee's Wedding." The first "book"
 
was published as "Melodies for the Pianoforte," while the second was formally titled "Lieder ohne Worte." The entire collection is now named according to a phrase found in a letter by Fanny Mendelssohn. FTP, name this collection composed by Felix Mendelss
ohn, so named because its songs are impressionistic in nature.
\par Answer:  _Songs without Words_
\par 
\par 17. Aylmer's gift of a rapidly growing flower to his wife Georgiana dies immediately upon her touching it. His attempt to photograph her leaves only a blurry outl
ine of his wife. He flaunts before her an elixir of his own devising with which he claims "freckles may be washed away as easily as the hands are cleansed," though his attempts to do so end only with her death. FTP, identify this Nathaniel Hawthorne story
 about a pygmy sized handprint on Georgiana's cheek.
\par Answer:  "The _Birthmark_"
\par 
\par 18. He has been identified as an ascetic martyr, killed in his crusade against the irrational tide of religious fanaticism. Others suggest that he was a myopic psychopath who w
as unable to accept human nature as it stood, and tried to suppress it. Still others seem him as sexually repressed, as signified by his assuming the garb of a woman in order to see his mother's wild orgies. In the end, though, the Maenads care nothing ab
out these critical opinions - they, along with his mother, tear him limb from limb and affix his head to a staff during a religiously induced frenzy. FTP, identify this son of Agave and cousin to Dionysus.
\par Answer:  _Pentheus_
\par 
\par 19. Educated at Dartmouth Coll
ege, in 1940 he was appointed coordinator of inter-American affairs by FDR. Considered one of the era's leading experts on Latin America, he became Assistant Secretary of State in charge of relations with Latin America in 1944 and later served under Truma
n
 as chairman of the Advisory Board in International Development for the Four-Point Program. FTP, name this politician who put the 25th Amendment to work on December 19, 1974 when he was sworn in to replace Gerald Ford as Vice-President of the United State
s.
\par Answer:  Nelson Aldrich _Rockefeller_
\par 
\par 20. This Scotsman graduated in 1819 from Oxford and originally went to study law in London, but his passion for amateur geology began to consume his time. He was the first to divide the Tertiary period into the Eoce
ne, Miocene, and Pliocene epochs.  He published _Principles of Geology_ in 1830 and followed it up in 1838 with _Elements of Geology_. FTP, name this geologist best known for arguing that the Earth's features were the product of millions of years of activ
ity and laying the foundation for evolutionary biology.
\par Answer:  Charles _Lyell_
\par 
\par 21. Originally founded as the Brenton Club in 1789, it was made up of Brittany delegates to the National Assembly. It split in July, 1791 over a petition calling for the remov
al of Louis XVI after his attempted escape from France, and many of the moderates left to join the rival Club of Feuillants. FTP, name this influential group during the French Revolution who took their best known name from their meeting place at a former 
Dominican monastery on Rue St. Jacques.
\par Answer:  _Jacobins_
\par 
\par 22. The narrator, in his eighth year of a lovesick malady, reads a version of Ovid's tale of Ceyx and Alcione, after which he falls asleep. In his dream, he goes on a hunt for a hart, whereupon he
 meets a man in black who has lost his fair lady White. FTP, identify this poem by Geoffrey Chaucer, one of his first major works, written for John of Gaunt after the death of his wife Blanche.
\par Answer:  The _Book of the Duchess_
\par 
\par 23. In the seventeenth cen
tury, they exhibited a long quiescent period called the Maunder minimum. The similar Spoerer minimum occurred in the fifteenth century, and earlier quiet intervals have been inferred. Since the beginning of the eighteenth century, variations in their numb
er have shown the fairly regular period, noted by Samuel Heinrich Swabe, of 11 years. FTP, name these most-visible signs of solar activity.
\par Answer:  _sunspots_
\par 
\par 24. This sex chromosomal anomaly includes the Y chromosome, which is enough to express the testi
s determining factor and cause masculinzation. However, these individuals are often sterile, exhibit underdeveloped external genitalia, breast development, disproportionally long limbs, and are frequently mentally retarded. FTP, name this form of trisomy 
in which an individual sexed as a male has an extra X chromosome.
\par Answer:  _Klinefelter_ syndrome
\par 
\par 25. After the Challenger explosion, psychologists interviewed college freshmen, repeating the questioning three years later. While emotionally powerful, it was found these memories weren't completely accurate, though the person's confidence in their accur
acy was extremely high. FTP, identify this type of memory which is formed when someone learns of an extremely shocking or emotional event, which for many people over 45 is remembering where they were when they heard of JFK's assassination. 
\par Answer:  _flashbulb_ memories
\par 
\par 26. A striking example is found on the island of Tristan de Cunha. Settled by fifteen people in 1814, as of the late 1960's their 240 descendants displayed four cases of retinisis pigmentosa, a rare form of progressive blindness, and nine we
re known to be carriers. If a few individuals from any population are isolated, they are unlikely to have the same frequency of alleles as the parent population and this type of genetic drift occurs. FTP, name it.
\par Answer:  _founder_ effect
\par 
\par 27. Its first i
ncarnation lasted from 1969 to 1972, with the guitarist as the only constant member. The second incarnation, formed in 1972, managed to hold on to more members, including Yes drummer Bill Bruford. It too disbanded, however, after releasing 1974's _Red_. T
h
e third incarnation, including Tony Levin, Adrian Belew, and omnipresent guitarist Robert Fripp, was the group's most commercially successful incarnation, due to albums like _Beat_ and _Discipline_. FTP, name this progressive rock band, which took its nam
e from the lyrics of the title track to its debut release, _In the Court of the Crimson King_.
\par Answer:  _King Crimson_
\par 
\par 28. Born in Austria-Hungary in 1912, he joined the outlawed Hungarian Communist Party in 1931. After ascending to the posts of deputy sec
retary-general of the Hungarian Communist Party in 1946 and minister of the interior and head of the secret police in 1949 he was arrested and tried for treason in 1951 and spent two years in prison. Upon his release he assisted in deposing the regime tha
t imprisoned him. When the Soviets cracked down on the Hungarian revolt in 1956 he formed a new government and executed Irme Nagy in 1958. FTP, name this man who held supreme power in Hungary until his health failed in the late 1980's.
\par Answer:  Janos _Kadar_
\par 
\par 29. Formulated in 1923, it treats ions as point charges interacting by Coulomb's law and the solvent as a continuous medium characterized by a dielectric constant. This is an oversimplification, as the "lumpiness" of the solvent is not negligible when o
perating on the size scale of ions. However, its importance lies not in its accuracy, which is poor under most circumstances, but in its ability to correctly predict limiting slopes of the mean ionic activity coefficient vs. the molality of a solution. FT
P, name this law of physical chemistry used in the study of electrolyte solutions.
\par }\pard \s15\sl360\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4 Answer:  _Debye-Hueckel_ limiting law\page }{\f4\fs36 Bonuses by Iowa State for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }\pard \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright {\f4 
\par 1. Given a description of a work of art, identify it FTP each.
\par 1. Though the event in it happened in 1323, El Greco portrayed the participants in contemporary clothing. While St. Stephen and St. Augustine lower the body into the grave, above an angel guides the soul toward heaven.
\par Answer:  The _Burial of Count Orgaz_
\par 2. This shocking Goya painting contains a bloated king, frightened children, and a vulgar queen poised in a parody of Velazquez's Princess Margarita.
\par Answer:  The _Family of Charles IV_
\par 3. In this Sir Joshua Reynolds painting, a lady is seated in the center gazing up and to the 
left. Behind her, in shadow, are two other figures, one holding a dagger looking melancholy, the other holding a cup and looking furious.  The model for the woman was a famous actress.
\par Answer:  _Mrs. Siddons as the Tragic Muse_
\par 
\par 2. Answer the following questions about subatomic physics.
\par 1. Proposed by Yukawa, it is the field particle for the strong force. Its finite mass of around 130 MeV [mega electron volts] is the cause of the strong force's short range. FTP name it.
\par Answer:  _pion_
\par 2. Distinct from the neutral Z boson, this boson carries a charge and is exchanged in flavor changing reactions with quarks.
\par Answer:  _W_ boson (accept _W+_ and _W-_ boson)
\par 3. This quantity, when plotted against the z component of the isospin, gives rise to the eightfold way. Denoted by a capital Y, it is the sum of baryon, strange, charm, beauty, and truth numbers.
\par Answer:  _hypercharge_
\par 
\par 3. Answer these questions about the history of China FTP apiece.
\par 1. The first dynasty to leave historical records, it is believed to have ruled from the 16th to 11th centuries BC.
\par Answer:  _Shang_
\par 2. The first emperor of the Ch'in dynasty, he was the first to create a unified Chinese empire. After his death, he was buried with a terra-cotta army of over 6000 life-size soldiers and horses.
\par Answer:  _Shih_ huang-ti
\par 3. The romance of this period following the end of the Han dynasty was the source of later Chinese chivalric fiction. It actually was a period of intense fighting and political intrigue between Chinese states.
\par Answer:  _Three Kingdoms_ or _San-kuo_
\par 
\par 4. Given the title of a work of anthropology, name the author FTP each.
\par 1. _The Golden Bough_
\par Answer:  Sir James _Frazer_
\par 2. _The Hero with a Thousand Faces_
\par Answer:  Joseph _Campbell_
\par 3. _The Raw and the Cooked_
\par Answer:  Claude _Levi-Strauss_
\par 
\par 5. In 1947 when India and Pakistan gained their independence, one of the main concerns was the inclusion in Pakistan of the North-West Frontier Province Tribal Areas.
\par 1. FTP, which nation voted against Pakistan's admission the UN because Pakistan refused to hold a plebiscite in the Tribal Areas on the question of self-determination?
\par Answer:  _Afghanistan_
\par 2. FTP what name was proposed for the region if it were to become independent, which is also the name commonly given to the dispute over it?
\par Answer:  _Pashtunistan_ (accept: _Pathanistan_)
\par 3. FTP more, which Soviet Premier visited Afghanistan in 1955 and proclaimed support for the idea of the independent state of Pashtunistan?
\par Answer:  Nikolai A. _Bulganin_
\par 
\par 6. Name the period or epoch of geologic time from clues FTP each. If you need the approximate year that it ended, you'll receive five points.
\par 1.  For 10: This period saw extensive submergence of continents leave overlapping marine rocks. Africa and Asia separated. Angiosperms appeared.
\par For 5: 65 million BC.
\par Answer:  _Cretaceous_
\par 2.  For 10. In this period the seas were at their greatest extent over North America. Rocks were chiefly sedimentary. North America, Europe and Africa began moving together. Vertebrates appeared.
\par For 5: 408 million BC.
\par Answer:  _Silurian_
\par 3.  For 10: In this epoch the African and European plates collided. Arabia and Africa split at the Red Sea. California collided with the mid-Pacific ridge. Modern horses, pigs, elephants and carnivores began to appear.
\par For 5: 24 million BC.
\par Answer:  _Oligocene_
\par 
\par 7. Identify these symphonic poems FTP each.
\par 1. Richard Strauss refused to offer a detailed program for this tone poem, which is concerned with the "merry pranks" of a popular character from G
erman folklore. He did admit, though, that the final passage represents the character's capture, trial, and death on the gallows. FTP, that folk character.
\par Answer:  _Till Eulenspiegels_
\par 2. This poem, perhaps its conductor's most universally famous work, wa
s commissioned in 1879 and included among a series of tableaux vivants marking the Silver Jubilee of Tsar Alexander II. An explicit, detailed program note prepared for its premiere details the story of a caravan's passage while guarded by Russian soldiers
.
\par Answer:  _In the Steppes of Central Asia_ or _In Central Asia_ or other equivalents
\par 3. This poem is based on a well-known black-and-white reproduction of a painting by the Swiss-German artist Arnold Boecklin. In the poem, its composer makes use of fragmen
ts of the traditional plainchant Dies Irae, a hymn which had for centuries formed part of the Catholic Requiem Mass.
\par Answer:  Die _Totsninsel_ (The _Isle of the Dead_)
\par 
\par 8. Identify the 19th century English essayist from clues, FTP each.
\par 1. When he was twen
ty two, his sister Mary broke under the strain of caring for an invalid mother and stabbed her. After her release, he spent the rest of his life taking care of her, and collaborated with her on _Tales from Shakespeare_. His independent work includes the _
Essays of Elia_.
\par Answer:  Charles _Lamb_
\par 2. The son of a wealthy merchant, he spent all his money on laudanum and took up writing to support himself. One of his drug induced dreams may have led him to write _On Murder Considered as One of the Fine Arts_.
\par Answer:  Thomas _De Quincy_
\par 3. When Yeats asked William Morris which writers had inspired the socialist movement, he replied that Ruskin and this author had, though "someone should have been beside [him] and punched his head every five minutes." His work _
Sartor Resartus_ gives an account of the life and opinions of Professor Diogenes Teufelsdr\'9ach, an imaginary philosopher.
\par Answer:  Thomas _Carlyle_
\par 
\par 9. Answer these questions about the philosophy of Francis Bacon.
\par 1. Bacon claimed that the acquisition of truth was hindered by four of these entities, which he designated "of the tribe", "of the cave", "of the market", and "of the theatre".  For 10 points, what was the common missing term?
\par Answer:  _Idols_
\par 2. Bacon outlined these idols in this book, where he set forth his method of induction. FTP, name it.
\par Answer:  _Novum Organum_
\par 3. Finally, for five points, identify the title utopia which would arise from applied science, first printed in 1626.
\par Answer:  The _New Atlantis_
\par 
\par 10. Answer these questions about cellular respiration, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5: The end product of glycolysis, this compound is converted to ethanol in alcoholic fermentation.
\par Answer:  _Pyruvic acid_
\par 2.  For 5: In animal cells, anaerobic respiration results in a build up of this molecule, which in humans causes muscles to cramp.
\par Answer:  _Lactic acid_
\par 3.  For 10: As electrons pass along the respiratory chain, ATP is formed in this process which results in the production of a water molecule.
\par Answer:  _oxidative phosphorylation_
\par 4.  For 10: Finally, these folds within the mitochondrion contain the electron carriers of the respiratory chain.
\par Answer:  _cristae_
\par 
\par 11. Identify the pop artists from descriptions of their works FTP each.
\par 1. He is tabbed as a descendant of the American precisionists - he even painted _The Demuth Five_, in homage to Demuth's _I Saw the Figure Five in Gold_. He is probably more famous for his obsession with word images, such as EAT, LOVE, and DIE.
\par Answer:  Robert _Indiana_
\par 2. After having daydreams of bei
ng nuked while painting billboards, this man went into art, painting the multi-paneled _F-111_ depicting lightbulbs, mushroom clouds, and automotive tail fins against the figure of the namesake bomber. Other works include _Slipping off the Continental Div
ide_ and _Area Code_.
\par Answer:  James _Rosenquist_
\par 3. Some of his non-works i
nclude proposals for a colossal peeled banana in Times Square, and an enormous block of concrete to be inscribed with the names of war heroes, then placed at the intersection of two major thoroughfares. Strangely enough, he has never been commissioned to 
execute one of his monuments by the City of New York.
\par Answer:  Claes _Oldenburg_
\par 
\par 12. Answer these questions about Europe and the Carolingian dynasty FTP each.
\par 1. Pepin the Short was the first king of the dynasty. Identify the last Merovingian king whom Pepin deposed to found the dynasty.
\par Answer:  _Childeric III_
\par 2. After the people of Rome drove this pope out of the city, he sought the aid of Charlemagne who restored him to the papal throne. Name this pope, who in return crowned Charlemagne as Holy Roman Emperor.
\par Answer:  _Leo III_
\par 3. Marking the end of political unity in Western Europe, Charles the Bald received France, Louis the German, Germany, and Lothar I the Low countries and the title of Holy Roman Emperor. Names this 843 treaty that divided Charlemag
ne's empire among his grandsons.
\par Answer:  Treaty of _Verdun_
\par 
\par 13. Name these members of Jimmy Carter's cabinet from biographical information for fifteen points apiece or for five points if you need that person's position.
\par 1.  For 15: He was a Wall Street lawyer, one-time president of the New York Bar Association and trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation.
\par For 5: Secretary of State
\par Answer:  Cyrus _Vance_
\par 2.  For 15: He was Secretary of the Air Force under LBJ and would later become president of Caltech.
\par For 5: Secretary of Defense
\par Answer:  Harold _Brown_
\par 
\par 14. Answer these questions about thermal radiation FTP each.
\par 1. In radiation, the rate of heat loss is equal to e times rho times area times temperature to the fourth power. First, FTP, identify this law.
\par Answer:  _Stefan-Boltzmann_ equation
\par 2. In the Stefan-Boltzmann equation, e is a value between zero and one which is characteristic of the material, and is low for reflective surfaces and high for black surfaces. FTP, give the name of this factor.
\par Answer:  _emissivity_
\par 3. This man solved the ultraviolet catastrophe of cavity radiation by treating the energy of the radiation as discrete amounts rather than a continuous spectrum.
\par Answer:  Max _Planck_
\par 
\par 15. Answer these questions about works by Voltaire for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5:  In _Candide_, this is Candide's mentor who dies a couple times, gets venereal disease, and always preaches that this world is the best of all possible worlds, even after he ceases to believe it.
\par Answer:  _Pangloss_
\par 2.  For 10: A kinder, gentler _Candide_, the title character in this work is a Zoroastrian turned out by his love owing to an eye injury and has a book written about the fact he should have died from it.
\par Answer:  _Zadig_
\par 3.  For 15: Subtitled "A Philosophical Tale," the title character, whose name is Greek for "little big," is a giant from a planet near Sirius. He travels to Saturn where he picks up a fellow traveler, then moves on to Earth where he dis
covers talking atoms called men.
\par Answer:  _Micromegas_
\par 
\par 16. Answer these questions about geometry FTP each.
\par 1. A motion is defined as a distance-preserving function of the plane; i.e., a motion of the plane preserves distances and shapes. Every motion is a composite of three special types of motions; name two of them for five points each.
\par Answer:  _rotations_
\par Answer:  _reflections_
\par Answer:  _translations_
\par 2. The symmetry group of a plane figure is defined as the set of all motions of that figure such that t
he figure is invariant under the motions - i.e., you put a circle in, you get a circle of the same size and shape, at the same place in the plane, back. How many elements are there in the symmetry group for a square centered at the origin? You have 15 sec
onds.
\par Answer:  _8_ (the identity, three rotations, and four reflections)
\par 3. More generally, the symmetry group of a regular polygon with n vertices, and center at the origin, is called the dihedral group. What is the order of the dihedral group for a regular polygon with n sides?
\par Answer:  _2n_ (2 times n)
\par 
\par 17. Identify these shades encountered by Dante in the _Inferno_, FTP each.
\par 1. Dante encounters this shade in the second circle of Hell. She relates the story of how she fell in love with Paolo while reading about Lancelot.
\par Answer:  _Francesca di Rimini_
\par 2. In the last bolgia visited in the eighth circle of Hell, Dante witnesses an argument between Master Adam, a counterfeiter, and this man, known as the "false Greek" for his role in the Trojan war.
\par Answer:  _Sinon_
\par 3. For 5 points each, name these two sinners crunched in Satan's mouth: the first, who suffers the most, has his head inside a mouth with his legs out kicking. The second is referred to as "still looking sturdy," which some scholars have attribute
d to Dante's confusing the Roman with another of similar name.
\par Answer:  _Judas_ Iscariot and Caius _Cassius_ Longinus
\par 
\par 18. Answer these questions on the movement for German unification FTP each.
\par 1. In May of 1848, this body was formed in an attempt to draft a constitution for a united Germany. It soon broke up, however, with no results for its efforts.
\par Answer:  _Frankfurt Assembly_
\par 2. During his consolidation of the German states, Bismarck initiat
ed a war against Denmark over these two territories when the King of Denmark attempted to annex them. Bismarck then used the Seven Weeks' War to deprive ally Austria of her claims on them. For five points apiece, name them.
\par Answer:  _Schleswig_ and _Holstein_
\par 3. Believing a war with France would help kindle German nationalism, Bismarck used this dispatch from King William I to make it look as if the king had insulted the French ambassador. The result was a declaration of war on France's part, leading to the
 Franco-Prussian War. Identify this communication.
\par Answer:  _Ems telegram_ or _Ems dispatch_
\par 
\par 19. Identify these works in which James Joyce appears as a character for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 10: Joyce, who is trying to put on _The Importance of Being Earnest_ in Geneva, is on-stage with Tristan Tzara and Vladimir Lenin in this Tom Stoppard play.
\par Answer:  _Travesties_
\par 2.  For 15: In this Flann O'Brien novel, his last, James Joyce is still alive. A bartender in a small Irish town, he regrets his Paris life and disavows all his novels except _Dubliners_. The novel gave its name to a small publishing company.
\par Answer:  The _Dalkey Archive_
\par 3.  For 5: There has been speculation that Joyce is the man in the grey mackintosh who appears frequently during the day in this novel. However, Joyce definitely shows up during Molly's soliloquy when she begs "O Jamesy let me up out of this."
\par Answer:  _Ulysses_
\par 
\par 20. Identify these different methods of sorting from computer science FTP each.
\par 1. The list is scanned from left to right. Whenever a pair of adjacent keys is found to be out of order, those items are swapped. After the first pass, the largest key in the list will have moved to the end, but earlier keys may still be out of order.

\par Answer:  _bubble_ sort
\par 2. So
metimes also called diminishing increment sort, this sort is named after its creator. It works by sorting sub-lists of items separated by a set number of items, then repeating with a smaller intermediate distance. For an increment of 1, a normal insertion
 sort is performed.
\par Answer:  _shell_ sort
\par 3. The list is first partitioned into lower and upper sublists for which all keys are, respectively, less than some pivot key or greater than the pivot key. The lists are then sorted separately, and the results merg
ed. This method was invented by C.A.R. Hoare.
\par Answer:  _quicksort_
\par 
\par 21. Answer these questions about events during the presidency of Andrew Jackson for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5: Objecting to the "Tariff of Abominations," this man secretly pen
ned the 1829 essay _The South Carolina Exposition and Protest_ which put forth the idea of nullification which eventually lead to South Carolina declaring the 1832 tariff void. For five points, name him.
\par Answer:  John Caldwell _Calhoun_
\par 2.  For 10: Jackson
's Secretary of War married a woman he had been having an affair with when her husband died at sea. When the wives of Washington society refused to associate with her, Jackson commanded his Cabinet members to receive her. The scandal lead to his resignati
on as well as Secretary of State Martin Van Buren. FTP, name either the woman or her husband.
\par Answer:  Peggy _O'Neill_ _Eaton_ (accept either) or John _Eaton_
\par 3.  For 10: This faction of Jacksonian Democrats advocated the suppression of paper money and the curtailment of banking privileges. FTP, name this group, formed in New York.
\par Answer:  _Locofoco_ party
\par 4.  For 5: Finally, owing to rampant land speculation, Jackson issued this decree which stated that government lands be paid for in gold and silver coin. For five points, identify this decree which resulted in depression following its July 1836 issuing.

\par Answer:  _Specie Circular_
\par 
\par 22. Identify these blandly named geographical features for 10 points each:
\par 1. Lying on the French-Italian border, it is the second largest mountain in Europe at 15, 771 ft.
\par Answer:  _Mont Blanc_
\par 2. About 30 miles in length, it flows into the Sacramento River at Sacramento. Sutter's Mill lies upon it.
\par Answer:  _American_ River
\par 3. A chain of over 100 islands off the coasts of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, they include St. Simons, Port Royal, and Paris Island.
\par Answer:  _Sea_ Islands
\par 
\par 23. Identify the writer from clues, FTP each.
\par 1. Secretary for Auguste Rodin, among this Austrian's poetry collections are _The Duino Elegies_ and _Sonnets to Orpheus_.
\par Answer:  Rainer Maria _Rilke_
\par 2. His relationship with Paul Verlaine broke up after the latter shot him. Soon after he published the prose poem _A Season in Hell_ and began a new career as a gunrunner in Africa.
\par Answer:  Arthur _Rimbaud_
\par 3. Leaving Russia for France after the 1917 revolution, he was the first Russian to win the Nobel Prize in Literature. Works include the novel _The Village_ and the short story "The Man from San Francisco."
\par Answer:  Ivan _Bunin_
\par 
\par 24. Answer these questions about the Allied occupation of Japan for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 10:  First, name the emperor who, in taking the unprecedented step of declaring his opinion vital to a national issue, was instrumental in convincing the Japanese government to accept the terms of surrender.
\par Answer:  Show _Hirohito_
\par 2.  For 5:  Next, name the Japanese Prime Minister who, along with six others, was executed for war crimes during the Purge at the beginning of the Occupation.
\par Answer:  _Tojo_ Hideki
\par 3.  For 10: Second, name the Liberal Party prime minister of Japan whose term saw the end of the Occupation.
\par Answer:  _Yoshida_ Shigeru
\par 4.  For 5:  Lastly, in what year did the Occupation end?
\par Answer:  April, _1952_
\par 
\par 25. Identify the experimental American author from clues.
\par 1. This author's novels consist mostly of sparsely punctuated dialogue. He won the 1975 National Book Award for _JR_, a story about a grade schooler who turns his allowance into a worldwide busine
ss franchise and the National Book Award for 1994 with _A Frolic of His Own_.
\par Answer:  William _Gaddis_
\par 2. His most famous literary technique is the cut-up method, which he writes about in his collection of essays _The Adding Machine_. Other works include _Exterminator!_ and _The Soft Machine_.
\par Answer:  William S. _Burroughs_
\par 3. Deeply philosophical in both his fiction and nonfiction, his essay collections include _The World Within the Word_ and _Habitations of the Word_. His novels include _Omensetter's Lu
ck_, _The Tunnel_, and _Willie Master's Lonesome Wife_, in which the act of reading is likened to the act of sex.
\par Answer:  William _Gass_
\par 
\par 26. Answer these questions about the foreign policy amongst nations in imperial India for the stated number of points.
\par 1. This is an extensive Indian work on politics. Unfortunately for historians, it is theoretical and in no sense a manual of the current practices of any time. It covers topics ranging from the payment of officers, means of subordination available to amb
itious kings, and the role of envoys. It is identified as "Kautiliya", and was attributed long after its writing to the legendary Canakya, minister to Candragupta. Name it FTP.
\par Answer:  the _Arthasastra_
\par 2. It is the name given to the traditional form of f
oreign policy found in the _Arthasastra_. The name, from the Sanskrit for "circle," reflects the nature of the policy. Neighboring states are assumed to generally be hostile toward one another. The constant struggle between survival and expansion is then 
acted out in concentric circles of potential friends and enemies. Name this theory FTP.
\par Answer:  _mandala_
\par 3. The circle of friends and a further circle of friends' friends from the mandala were counted together as one of the seven factors of the Indian state. Name any of the other two for five points apiece.
\par Answer:  _ruler_, _officials_, _province_, _forts_, _treasury_, _army_
\par 
\par 27. Identify these effects caused by various temporal relations between the conditional stimulus and unconditional stimulus in Pavlovian conditioning.
\par 1. This phenomenon results in a lack of conditioning. The conditional stimulus and unconditional stimulus are presented simultaneously, but because one stimulus is more salient than the other, the organism only pays attention to the more salient one.

\par Answer:  _overshadowing_
\par 2. In this type of conditioning, the interval between conditional stimulus and unconditional stimulus is quite long. Early in training, the conditional responses tend to start during the beginning of the conditional
 stimulus and continue right through to the beginning of the unconditional stimulus. Late in training, conditional responses begin to occur about midway through the conditional stimulus.
\par Answer:  _delay_ conditioning
\par 3. This type of learning is unusual because it often requires only one conditional stimulus presentation, and the unconditional stimulus can follow hours later. It is sometimes called the "Garcia effect" after the researcher who first studied it.
\par Answer:  _taste aversion_ learning
\par 
\par 28. This monastic Indian religion traces its roots back before the 8th century and its teachers include Vardhamma Mahavira.
\par 1. For five points, name this religious faith.
\par Answer:  _Jainism_
\par 2. For five points apiece, fifteen for both, name the two branches
, or traditions, of Jainism, one meaning "white-robed" whose adherents follow a canon of scripture containing the sermons and dialogues of Mahavira, and the other of which means "sky-clad" whose observers believe the original teachings have been lost but 
that the original message has been preserved and whose monks and nuns vow nudity.
\par Answer:  The _Svetambara_ and the _Digambara_
\par 3. For five points apiece, name any two of the three sacred texts of Jainism.
\par Answer:  _Agama_, _Cheda-sutras_, _Culika-sutras_
\par 
\par 29. Given a description of a strange short story, name it FTP.
\par 1. The title character of this Borges short story embarks upon a strange literary mission. His goal: to reproduce, with word for word accuracy, the text of _Don Quixote_, of which he managed th
e ninth and thirty-eighth chapters and a bit of the twenty-second.
\par Answer:  "_Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote_"
\par 2. A man who starves himself professionally, after the good times are gone, hires himself onto a circus which places him in a cage next to the menagerie. When he dies, they replace the empty cage with a panther, who draws more of a crowd than he ever did.

\par Answer:  "A _Hunger Artist_"
\par 3. Pelayo, upon returning from throwing dead crabs into the sea, finds an angel face down in the mud of his co
urtyard. He proceeds to lock him up in a hen coop. At first the villagers crowd around his cage, but eventually they find a young girl who was turned into a spider more interesting and leave the angel alone.
\par Answer:  "A _Very Old Man with Enormous Wings_"
\par 
\par 30. Answer these questions about small-time Roman gods FTP each.
\par 1. The "gods of the ancestors," which had no names or mythology, were honored yearly at this festival, which took place from February 13 to 21, during the last month of the Roman calendar. D
uring this period, no one got married, temples were closed, and offerings were made to the spirits by the heads of families.
\par Answer:  _Parentalia_
\par 2. These household spirits were closely associated with Vesta. Originally the spirits on whom the life and fo
od of individual families depended, they became an essential part of the life of the state. Their name derives from the Latin for "store cupboard," the store of food for a family.
\par Answer:  _Penates_
\par 3. These divinities were often linked with the Penates. T
hey are basically kindly spirits who protect the household, but their origins are vague. Cities also "had" these spirits, and in the case of cities they were said to protect crossroads and travelers by land and sea.
\par Answer:  _Lares_
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24 
\par }}