{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}{\f414\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f415\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f417\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f418\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f419\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 
\snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f4 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{\s20\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator The Weiner Family}
{\creatim\yr2000\mo7\dy10\hr9\min59}{\revtim\yr2000\mo7\dy10\hr9\min59}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2894}{\nofchars16500}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws20263}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f4 {\fs36 Tossups by Maryland B for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{
\par 1. Discovered in the 1980s their association with certain neurological diseases continues to be a subject of scientific investigation. The brain tissues of victims of the these diseases have revealed the presence of abnormal patches or flat areas (plaques
) of protein.  Analysis of these plaques from the brains of sheep led to isolation of protein particles only one-hundredth the size of the smallest known viruses. FTP identify this type of infectious agent discovered by Stanley Prusiner.
\par Answer:  _prions_
\par 
\par 2. In 1781 he abolished serfdom and granted peasants basic rights. and in the same year issued the Edict of Toleration.  His attempts to centralize government led to revolts in Hungary and the Netherlands, and his reign saw the War of the Bavarian Success
ion as well as territorial acquisitions from the first Partition of Poland.  For ten points, name the Holy Roman Emperor dominated by his mother Maria Theresa until she died in 1780.
\par Answer:  _Joseph II_
\par 
\par 3. She has written nine books of poetry, and a book of critical essays on her national literature called _Survival_. In 1983 she was asked to edit the New Ox
ford compilation of Canadian Verse, but her true fame rests on her reputation as a fiction writer who stresses feminist themes, apparent in novels such
 as _Surfacing_ and _the Edible Woman_. FTP name this author of the distopian novel _The Handmaids Tale_.
\par Answer:  Margaret _Atwood_
\par 
\par 4. It straddles both the equator and the international date line in the Pacific Ocean.    Composed of 33 islands, grouped 
into the Line Islands and the Phoenix Islands, it was originally part of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands colony until 1975, when the Ellice Islands gained independence as Tuvalu. It took its name this based on the pronunciation of "Gilbert" in the indigeno
us language, which has only 13 letters in its alphabet. FTP name this nation with capital at Tarawa. 
\par Answer:  _Kiribati_
\par 
\par 5. This man began his career working with Jean Martin Charcot conducting research on hypnotism. Taking his cue from the work of Franci
s Galton he proposed to study cognitive ability directly and worked on the idea of Individual psychology with Victor Henri in an 1896 article. However his greatest contribution was accomplished with another partner, Theodore Simon, with whom he created a 
valid way of distinguishing between normal children and those with mental deficiency. FTP name the French psychologist whose scale of intelligence would become associated with Stanford University.
\par Answer:  Alfred _Binet_
\par 
\par 6. A descendant of the Titans and a cousin of Artemis she is clearly a fertility deity
\par as she can make the earth produce in plenty, she is also a goddess of roads and cross-roads, the latter being considered the center of ghostly activities. This is appropriate as she is considered the quee
n of witches and her home is the depths of the Underworld FTP name this triple faced goddess of magic.
\par Answer:  _Hecate_
\par 
\par 7. This writer incorporated the commonplace details of American everyday life into his works, and derided TS Eliot for giving poetry b
ack to the academics. Conceiving of the poem as an object, he developed his variable foot  and wheelbarrow styles in collections such as _The Tempers_, _Sour Grapes_, and _Pictures from Brueghel_. FTP name this poet who sustained a life-long medical pract
ice in New Jersey, best known for _Paterson_. 
\par Answer:  W.C. _Williams_
\par 
\par 8. Levi
 invents his blue jeans, the Navy stops flogging sailors, Pinkerton opens a detective agency, Dickens publishes "David Copperfield," Bunsen dreams up his burner, Folger offers coffee ready-roasted and ground, Tennyson writes "'Tis better to have loved and
 lost...".  FTP these events all occured in what year, when California and Maine formally entered the union.
\par Answer:  _1850_
\par 
\par 9. A particular case of Le Chateliers principle it states that when a current is caused to flow in an electrical conductor by a cha
nge in the external magnetic field surrounding the conductor, the direction of flow of the current is such as to produce a magnetic field opposing the original change. FTP identify this law often used to explain the behavior of inductors and named after i
ts Estonian discoverer.
\par Answer:  _Lenz_'s law
\par 
\par 10.  A landscape painting in a light shaded frame hangs in the background. To the left are black curtains. The main subject is sitting and her legs are propped up on a small wooden box. We see her from the side
 and her billowy black dress covers much of the paintings surface area, while her
\par hands rest on her lap. FTP identify this painting subtitled portrait of the artists mother by Whistler, which Mr. Bean \'d2restores\'d3 by coating a poster of it with lacquer.
\par Answer:  _Arrangement in Gray and Black_  (accept \'d2Whistler\'d5s Mother\'d3 on early buzz, otherwise prompt and look stern.)
\par 
\par 11. The name's the same:  one was a five-time consul of Rome, who conquered Syracuse in 212 BC and died while fighting against Hannibal. The
 other was a guard of Elsinore Castle who proclaimed one day, "Something is rotten in the state of Denmark."  For ten points, what name did these two share, one the "sword of Rome," the other played by Jack Lemmon in Kenneth Branagh's version of _Hamlet_?

\par Answer:  _Marcellus_
\par 
\par 12.  As the play opens its main characters are enjoying the sound of the approaching military band to their small garrison town. Along with their brother Andrey they dream of alife away from their provincial life. Trying to escape the
ir drab lives Masha has an affair with an officer while Irina
\par marries a local Baron. By the end of the play however all their dreams are unrealized. FTP name this 1901 play which some consider Anton Chekhovs greatest.
\par Answer:  _The Three Sisters_
\par 
\par 13. Proposed by a Senator from Ohio, it never took effect because President Lincoln pocket-vetoed it.  This bill would have required a majority of a state's citizens to fulfill an oath of allegiance to the
\par Union, and would have disqualified from public office anyone who had served in the Confederacy.  For ten points, identify this Civil War Radical Republican bill passed on July 2, 1864, attempting to regulate Reconstruction policies.
\par Answer:  _Wade-Davis_ Bill
\par 
\par 14. This Polish born physiologist smoked over 25 ciga
rs a day - it is ironic then that he published _The Organism's Need for Oxygen_ in 1885. The son of Jewish innkeepers and an assistant to Robert Koch, his work with arsenic related compounds earned him the1908 Nobel Prize in
\par physiology or medicine for FTP, name the scientist who coined the term chemotherapy and discovered the arsenic compound Salvarsan in 1909 in order to treat the disease syphilis.
\par Answer: Paul _Ehrlich_
\par 
\par 15. Founded in the Punjab by Guru Nanak who sought to combine Hindu and Muslim elements in a single religious creed.  It taught "the unity of God, brotherhood of man, rejection of caste and the futility of idol worship." Its worshippers are readily identi
f
iable by their turbans.  They take a vow not to cut their hair as well as not to smoke or drink alcoholic beverages.  When Gobind Singh founded the martial fraternity Khalsa ("pure"), his followers vowed to keep the five K's, (kesh),  (kangha), (kara),  (
kachha), and (kirpan). FTP name this religious sect whose holy city is Amritsar
\par Answer:  _Sikh_ism
\par 
\par 16.  His early architectural and art training is evident in his visual approach to narrative and atmosphere. Over the course of his life he made more than 30
 films, with his first success _The Weary death_ released in 1921. Before escaping the Nazi regime in 1934, and relocating to the US, more famous films followed including _Dr. Mabuse_ and his first sound film _M_ . FTP name this Austrian expressionist fil
m director most famous for the 1927 picture _Metropolis_.
\par Answer:  Fritz_Lang_
\par 
\par 17.  This strict Presbyterian published his _Rabdologiae_ in 1617 long after graduating from St. Andrew's University. During the English defense of the Spanish Armada, he devise
d warlike machines including primitive tanks in order to prepare for the forces of Philip II.  FTP, name this
\par mathematician whose most important contribution to the elements of algebra and calculus was his 1614 publishing of _Description of the Marvelous Canon of Logarithms_.
\par Answer: John _Napier_
\par 
\par 18.  Like Marvell he wrote _Heroic stanzas on the Death of Oliver Cromwell_. He wrote prodigiously for the theater including _The Wild Gallant_ and _The Rival Ladies_. But his most important contribution was to p
oetry, and his belief that the value of art lies wholly in workmanship best expressed in works such as _Alexanders Feast_, _Annus Mirabilis_, and _MackFlecnoe_. FTP name this 17th century poet most famous for the allegorical _Hind and the Panther_.
\par Answer:  John _Dryden_
\par 
\par 19. Along with drummer Gene Krupa and pianist Teddy Wilson--the first black musician to be featured with a popular white group-- his famous ensemble was formed in 1935. Born in Chicago he used many arrangements from Fletcher Hendersons ban
d in establishing his famous swing style and occasionally played with classical bands throughout his long career. FTP name this most famous jazz clarinetist and King of Swing.
\par Answer:  Benny _Goodman_
\par 
\par 20.  The first of its kind to be discovered, on Jan.  
1, 1801 the Italian Giuseppe Piazzi did the honors.  Its diameter is about 785 km (488 mi), and it orbits the Sun every 4.6 years at an average distance of 414 million km (257 million mi). FTP identify this largest of the minor planets whose mass accounts
 for approximately one-half the combined mass of all asteroids. 
\par Answer:  _Ceres_
\par 
\par 21.  Based on the authors own journal, the story continues the narrative of several men, dwelling on the brutality of life experienced by them sailing from Boston to Californ
ia on the Pilgrim. FTP identify this 1840 novel of life on the sea by Richard Henry Dana.
\par Answer:  _2 Years Before the Mast_
\par 
\par 22.  Composed of three subunits: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group that is joined to one end of the sugar molecule, and one of s
everal different nitrogenous bases of which there are four types they are biochemical building blocks FTP name this class of chemicals, which include guanine
\par and cytosine, from which nucleic acids are formed. 
\par Answer:  _nucleotides_
\par 
\par 23. In this novella set in the 16th century the titular hero embraces vigilante ways when the government fails to supply restitution for the loss of his two best horses. Incensed by the lack of justice present in his society he gathers a band of men and c
ommits atrocious acts of violence against those that tricked him. FTP name this 1808 work, the most famous of Heinrich von Kleist.
\par Answer:  _Michael Kohlhaas_
\par }{\fs36 Bonuses by Maryland B for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{
\par 1. Identify the poet from the lines of a well-known poem 15-5
\par 1.  15- Flinging magnetic curses amid the toil of piling job on job, here is a
\par tall bold slugger set vivid against the little soft cities
\par 5- Hog Butcher for the World
\par Answer:  Carl _Sandburg_
\par 2.  15- Notice Neptune, though,
\par Taming a sea horse, thought a rarity,
\par Which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze for me!
\par 5- Thats my last Duchess painted on the wall
\par Answer:  Robert _Browning_
\par 
\par 2. For the stated number of points, give the value of these fundamental constant. (Note: units are necessary for all correct answers)
\par 1. For 5:  Planck's constant
\par Answer:  3.34x10^-34 Joule x seconds
\par 2. For 10:  mass of electron
\par Answer:  9.11x10^-31 kg
\par 3.  For 15: permittivity of free space
\par Answer:  8.85x10^-12 Farads per meter
\par 
\par 3. Identify these musical terms for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  For 5:  A sign placed before a note, it indicates a departure from the key signature.  Examples include sharps, flats, and naturals.
\par Answer: _accidental_
\par 2.  For 5:  A type of musical scale in which the second, fifth, and seventh intervals are half-steps, the sixth is a step and a half, and the rest are whole steps.
\par Answer: _harmonic minor_ (prompt on minor)
\par 3.  For 10:  A piece of music written in imitation of songs based on Venetian gondoliers, it is usually in a moderate tempo suggestive of the graceful motion of a gondola.
\par Answer: _barcarolle_
\par 4.  For 10:  An accompaniment essential to the composition, this is usually written for a single instrument that supplements the leading voice of a musical piece.
\par Answer: _obligato_
\par 
\par 4.  How much do you know about events of the quattrocento?  Identify these highlights of Italian history in the 1400s.
\par 1.  For five points, this noblewoman was born in 1480.  She was known as a patron of the arts and for her involvement in family crimes.
\par Answer:  _L_ucrezia _Borgia_
\par 2.  For ten points, this Dominican religious reformer founded ashort-lived republic in Florence from 1494 to 1498.
\par Answer:  Girolamo _Savonarola_
\par c.  For fifteen points, under this 1454 peace, Francesco Sforza won succession to the duchy in Milan.
\par Answer:  Peace of _Lodi_
\par 
\par 5.  Identify the painters of the following for the stated number of points:
\par 1. For 5 -_The Absinthe Drinkers_
\par Answer:  Edgar _Degas_
\par 2. For 10 _The Embarkation to Cythera_
\par Answer:  Antoine _Watteau_
\par 3. For 15- Portrait of _Emile Zola_
\par Answer:  Edouard _Manet_
\par 
\par 6. Answer these questions that influenced the development of the evolutionary theory. Specifically Darwins cruise around S. America.
\par 1. For 5 points each, identify the boat on which he travelled and the islands at which he did most of his research.
\par Answer:  _the Beagle_;_Galapagos_ islands
\par 2. For another five points: Darwin\'d5s study of the 13 species of what bird were most important to his research?
\par Answer:  _finch_
\par 3. For 15 name the captain of the Beagle whose belief in phrenology almost cost Darwin the position of ship naturalist.
\par Answer:  Captain_Fitz-Roy_
\par 
\par 7. Identify these animals of Norse myth
\par 1.  For 5: Odins eightlegged steed
\par Answer:  _Sleipnir_
\par 2.  For 10: Odins two ravens
\par Answer:  _Hugin and Munin_
\par 3.  For 15- Freys boar
\par Answer:  _Gullinbursti_
\par 
\par 8. Hist: 30-20-10 name the historical figure:
\par 30: He was the only soldier in U.S. military history to wear a velvet uniform, which he designed himself.
\par 20: As lieutenant colonel of the Seventh Cavalry in 1867, he attempted to whip his men into shape as Indian hunters against the Cheyennes, Arapahoes, and Kiowas.  After sufferi
ng severe losses he ordered all AWOL men shot, then himself went AWOL to visit his wife.
\par 10: The Indians called him "Long Hair" because of his blonde locks, and his greatest defeat came on June 25, 1869, when his column of soldiers fell to a Sioux ambush, which was recounted to the whites by Curley, a Crow scout who witnessed the slaughter.

\par Answer:  George Armstrong _Custer_
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the following terms from neurology:
\par 1. FTP what is the name of the layer of tissue which covers the cerebral hemispheres and is deeply convoluted into gyri and sulci.
\par Answer:  _cerebral cortex_
\par 2. The cerebral cortex covers four lobes of the brain; name these for 5 points each.
\par Answer:  _frontal, occipital, temporal, parietal_ lobes
\par 
\par 10. Identify the scientist 30-20-10
\par 30- When money was scarce he sold gastric juice as a cure-all.
\par 20- It was while he worked at St. Petersburg military academy that he became interested in the digestive system while operating on animals.
\par 10- He discovered the conditioned and unconditioned reflex.
\par Ivan _Pavlov_
\par 
\par 11. Identify the European royal house given its origin for ten points or its first ruler and year of rule for five.
\par 1.  For 10:  This house traces its origin to Edmund of Langley, the fifth son of Edward III.
\par      For 5:  Edward IV, 1461
\par Answer:  _York_
\par 2.  For 10:  They can be traced back to the 9th century nobleman Aimar, but the founder of the royal line was Robert of Clermont, a son of Louis IX.
\par      For 5:  Henri IV, 1589
\par Answer:  _Bourbon_
\par 3.  For 10:  Named for the city which was the seat of the duchy, the first duke was Alfonso, the illegitimate son of John I.
\par      For 5:  John IV, 1640
\par Answer:  _Braganza_
\par 
\par 12. Answer these questions about a 1940 novel, 10 each.
\par 1.  For 10 name this work by the same author of _Uncle Toms Children_
\par Answer:  _Native Son_
\par 2.  For five points each name the author of _Native Son_ and its violent protagonist.
\par Answer:  Richard _Wright_, _Bigger Thomas_
\par 3.  For ten points name the rich young girl Bigger kills by mistake.
\par Answer:  _Mary Dalton_
\par 
\par 13. 30-20-10 name the activist:
\par 30:  The youngest of eleven children from St. Anne's Bay, Jamaica, in 1907 he led a printers' strike for higher wages.
\par 20:  After founding the Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA) in 1914, he moved to New York and started a weekly newspaper, _The Negro World_.
\par 10:  Preaching the return of black Americans to Africa, he created the Negro Star Line in 1919 to provide steamship transportation.
\par Answer:  Marcus _Garvey_
\par 
\par 14.  Identify these men who worked on the Manhatten Project on a 10-5 basis.  If you can identify them based on their code names during the project, you will receive 10 pts. - if you need an easier clue you will receive 5 pts.
\par 1.  For 10: Mr. Bradley
\par      For 5:  After the first text explosion with code name Fat Man, he exclaimed "Now I am become death, destroyer of worlds."
\par Answer: J. Robert _Oppenheimer_
\par 2.  For 10: Uncle Nick
\par     For 5: His work on the structure of the atom earned him the 1922 Nobel Prize in physics.
\par Answer: Niels _Bohr_
\par 3.  For 10:  Henry Farmer
\par      For 5:  This man was responsible for the first nuclear chain reaction occurring at a squash court under Stagg Field in Chicago.
\par Answer: Enrico _Fermi_
\par 
\par 15. Identify the latin American scholar and author:
\par 30: He wrote a number of essays criticizing the US including Emerson and Jesse James
\par 20: His best known poetry is included in three collections Ismaelillo, Versos Libres, and Versos Sencillos.
\par 10: A national hero in his homeland of Cuba, its main airport is named after him
\par Answer:  Jose _Marti_
\par 
\par 16. Arrange the following acts of colonial rule in chronological order from first to last FFPE and a 5 point bonus.
\par 1.Stamp Act
\par 2.Townshend Acts
\par 3.Quartering Act
\par 4. Quebec Act
\par 5.Sugar Act
\par Answer:  5 (Apr.1764), 1 (Mar. 1764), 3 (1766), 2 (1767), 4 (1774)
\par 
\par 17. Identify the city- 30-20-10
\par 30:  Founded in 1849 it formed an endpoint of the Central Pacific Railroad as well as the Pony Express. 
\par 20:  This city contains several points of interest including Crocker Art Museum, Fort Sutter, and the state capitol. 
\par 10:  Name this capital city of California home to the NBAs Kings.
\par Answer:  _Sacramento_
\par 
\par 18. Identify the following terms from economics given a definition:
\par 1.  For 5: the various forces, physical and mental, that humans apply to production.
\par Answer:  _labor_
\par 2.  For 10: This is the extra cost of producing one additional unit of output.
\par Answer:  _marginal cost_
\par 3.  For 15: This is a measure of the aggregate output in constant-valued dollars from a year.
\par Answer:  _real GNP_
\par 
\par 19. Answer these questions about a 19th Century English novel.
\par 1.  For 10- name the young woman who captures the heart of Angel Clare.
\par Answer:  _Tess Durbyville_ or _Tess of the DUrbervilles_
\par 2.  For 5- who wrote _Tess of the DUrbervilles_
\par Answer:  Thomas _Hardy_
\par 3.  For 15- What was the name of Tess\'d5s baby.
\par Answer:  _Sorrow_
\par  
\par 20. Identify the Dickens works from characters FTPE
\par 1. Mulberry Hawk, Madame Mantalinni, Wackford Squeers
\par Answer:  _Nicholas Nickleby_
\par 2. Mr. Carker, Walter Gay, Mr. Blimber
\par Answer:  _Dombey and Son_
\par 3. Betsey Trotwood, Steerforth, Mr Micawber
\par Answer:  _David Copperfield_
\par 
\par 22. identify the English author
\par 30- his most notable work appeared in periodicals including the Edinburgh review.
\par 20- later in his life he criticized his former friends Coleridge and Southey for their conservatism, later works include _Liber Amoris_ and _The Spirit of the Age_.
\par 10- after Coleridge he is the most influential of the Romantic critics and was a great supporter of John Keats.
\par Answer:  William _Hazzlit_
\par 
\par }{\cf6 23. Identify the composers of this Heavenly Music
\par 1. The Planets
\par Answer:  Gustav _Holst_
\par 2. The Jupiter Symphony
\par Answer:  Wolfgang Amadeus _Mozart_
\par 3. Moonlight Sonata
\par Answer:  Ludwig Van _Beethoven_
\par  
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24\cf6 
\par }}