{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff7\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}{\f412\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f413\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f415\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f416\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f417\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f5 
\snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{\s17\qc\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f4 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{\s20\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}}{\info{\author The Weiner Family}{\operator The Weiner Family}
{\creatim\yr1999\mo11\dy26\hr23\min56}{\revtim\yr1999\mo11\dy27\min6}{\version3}{\edmins7}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords4782}{\nofchars27263}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws33480}{\vern71}}\margl1440\margr1200 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f5\fs24 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\adjustright \f5 {\f4\fs36 Tossups by MIT for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{\f4 
\par 1.  There are 24 of them, grouped into four so-called "figures" of six each. For those in Figure I, medieval scholars gave the names Barbara, Celarent, Darii, and Ferio to the basic "moods", with the "subaltern" moods named Barbari and Celaront.  The cons
onants indicate which conversions must be made from the basic moods, while the vowels indicate the form of each term: positive or negative, existential or universal.  FTP what are these deductive schemes first described by Aristotle?
\par Answer:  valid _syllogism_s
\par 
\par 2.  After joining the army as a stenographer in 1921, he gained a large popular following.  In September, 1933, he became the most powerful man in the nation after his "sergeants' revolt" toppled the country's provisional regime.  He did not get hims
elf elected president, however, until 1940, leading until 1944. His return in March, 1952, was widely hailed, but led to a brutal dictatorial regime, during which he embezzled large sums of money.  FTP, name this dictator who twice ruled Cuba before falli
ng to Fidel Castro's rebel forces in the fall of 1958.
\par Answer:  Fulgencio _Batista_ y Saldivar
\par 
\par 3.  Its highest point is the 259-foot-high peak known as "The Peak", which towers above the main island, known as "Main Island".  It also includes Ireland Island
, though it's 3000 miles from Ireland, and over 300 coral islets. Puerto Rico and the Florida coast are each about a thousand miles away. For 10 points, name this archipelago, a British colony located 650 miles east of Cape Hatteras.
\par Answer:  _Bermuda_
\par 
\par 4.
  He has the longest entry in _Who's Who in America_, with an impressive resume including 10 years in Washington -- the longest tenure of any Kennedy appointee -- and 3 years as a university chancellor, after winning the Nobel Prize while still in his thi
r
ties.  On August 30, 1997, he received an honor never before bestowed upon any living person, when the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry named an element after him.  FTP name this co-discoverer of element 106, as well as nobelium, fermium,
 mendelevium, einsteinium, curium, americium, plutonium, californium and berkelium.
\par Answer:  Glenn Theodore _Seaborg_         (Element 106 is now called Seaborgium.)
\par 
\par 5.  Situated on Phaleron Bay, this city was protected on the east by the hill of Munychia,
 and was destroyed by Sulla in 86 BC.  Following the Peloponnesian War and the establishment of the tyranny of the Thirty, it was captured by the democratic exiles under Thrasybulus. Originally fortified under the direction of Themistocles, its Long Walls
 were completed around 460 BC.  FTP, what is this port city of Athens?
\par Answer:  _Piraeus_  or _Piraievs_
\par 
\par 6.  Pick two prime numbers, "p" and "q".  Find two other numbers, "e" and "d", such that "e" times "d" minus 1 is divisible by the product of "p" minus
 1 and "q" minus 1.  Announce only the number "e", and the product of "p" and "q". These can be used by anyone to encrypt a message, but only you can decrypt the message as long as you keep "d" secret.  FTP, this is the basis of what public-key cryptograp
hic system devised at MIT by Ron Rivest ["ree-VEST"] and Adi Shamir?
\par Answer:  _RSA_         (prompt on "_public key_ crypto"-anything if answer is given before "public-key")
\par 
\par [Note:  The "A" stands for Leonard Adleman.  His contribution was to find the flaws in all the other systems that Rivest and Shamir came up with.]
\par 
\par 7.  They usually lie along the outside of the molecule, with one side facing the solution, and the other side facing the hydrophobic interior.  They most commonly includes alanine, glutamic 
acid, leucine and methionine, and their average length is about 10 residues, corresponding to three turns.  FTP what are these most common elements of a protein's secondary structure?
\par Answer:  _alpha-helices_  (accept _alpha-helix_)
\par 
\par 8.  The first known use of it in Western music occurs in a 16th-century piece for viols by Christopher Tye, called "Trust".  Some three centuries later, it was used in the third movement of Chopin's first piano sonata, and then in the second movement of T
c
haikovsky's Pathetique ["pa-tay-TEAK"] symphony, Gustav Holst's "Mars, the Bringer of War", and Lalo Shiffrin's theme from "Mission: Impossible".  FTP what odd time signature do these works share with Paul Desmond's 1959 hit for the Dave Brubeck Quartet, 
"Take Five"?
\par Answer:  _5/4_ (_five four_ths) time
\par 
\par 9.  His son, Lamech, died at the age of 777, five years before the Great Flood.  His father, Enoch, lived 365 years before "God took him".  He himself thus became the first man in the book of Genesis to out
live a son who had not been murdered or taken by God.  However, he died soon after, in the same year as the Flood.  For 10 points, who was this grandfather of Noah who lived to the age of 969, longer than any other mortal in the Bible?
\par Answer:  _Methuselah_  or  _Methushael_
\par 
\par 10.  "The event to be commemorated happened in the year 1759, in a region of the world unknown to the Greeks and Romans, and at a period of time when no warriors who wore such costume existed.  The subject I have to represent is a grea
t battle fought and won, and the same truth which gives law to the historian should rule the painter."  In these words, the artist of this 1770 work defended it against attacks by traditionalists led by Sir Joshua Reynolds. FTP name this painting by Benja
min West, depicting the dying victor at the Battle of Quebec.
\par Answer:  The _Death of General Wolfe_ or The _Death of Wolfe_
\par  
\par 11.  When this man committed suicide following an encounter with Mopsus, the prediction that he would die after meeting his superio
r in divination was fulfilled.  During his life he foretold the length of the siege of Troy, advised the construction of the wooden horse, and demanded the sacrifice of Iphigeneia.  FTP, who was this Greek soothsayer during the Trojan War?
\par Answer:  _Calchas_
\par 
\par 12.  On the 25th of March it is discovered by the barber Ivan Yakovlevich in a loaf of bread baked by his wife.  Fearing entrapment, he throws it off the Isakievsky Bridge into the Neva River.  Later the same day, it is seen on Nevsky Prospekt walking 
out of a carriage and wearing a gold-braided uniform -- much to the astonishment of its owner, the collegiate assessor Platon Kovaliov.  Kovaliov gets it back eventually, but he can't afford a doctor and it won't reattach until April 7.  FTP what is this 
title body part in a short story by Nikolai Gogol?
\par Answer:  the _Nose_
\par 
\par 13.  The first settlers arrived at Cape Montserrado in 1821, and were led by Jehudi Ashmun, a Methodist minister.  In 1841, Joseph Jenkins Roberts became governor, and in 1847 he became
 president of a newly proclaimed republic, whose independence was soon recognized by European powers but not by the United States until 1862.  FTP what is this African country originally  established by the American Colonization Society?
\par Answer:  _Liberia_
\par 
\par 14.  Psalms 126:4 describes it as a semi-arid region even in early times. In the area immediately surrounding Beersheba, rainfall sometimes measures as much as a foot in some years, making it less dry than most proper deserts.  With an area of approximat
ely 4,700 square miles, it descends from the Judean Hills in the north, bordered on the east by the Jordan Rift valley, and the west by the Sinai Peninsula.  FTP, name this arid region of southern Israel, whose named is derived from the Hebrew for "to dry
".
\par Answer:  _Negev_ (or _Ha-Negev_ or _Negeb_)
\par 
\par 15.  "I should prefer to have some boy bend them ...
\par One by one he subdued his father's trees
\par By riding them down over and over again 
\par Until he took the stiffness out of them,
\par And not one but hung limp, not one was left  
\par For him to conquer. ...
\par One could do worse than be a swinger of", for 10 points, what sort of trees in a poem by Robert Frost?
\par Answer:  _Birches_
\par 
\par 16.  This noted conservative was vilified in 1996 by the American Civil Liberties
 Union for "actually proposing a constitutional amendment that would allow  Congress, by a simple majority vote, to override any Supreme Court decision  it didn't like."  In October 1973, when Elliot Richardson resigned rather than fire Watergate Special 
Prosecutor Archibald Cox, he, as Solicitor General, carried out President Nixon's order to fire him.  FTP, name this former judge, whose writings and actions came back to haunt him in 1987, when he was  rejected by the Senate for a Supreme Court seat.

\par Answer:  Robert _Bork_
\par 
\par 17.  According to the Guinness Book of Records, this people's national epic is the longest poem in the world, with over half a million lines.  Their trilogy about the chieftains Manas ["ma-NASS"], Semetei and Seitek is an encyclopedia of
 traditional stories about battles with the Kalmaks and migrations from the Altai Mountains to the Talas River Valley in the Tien Shan.  FTP what is this Turkic ethnic group predominating in a former Soviet republic with its only international airport now
 named Manas Bishkek?
\par Answer:  _Kyrgyz_         accept _Kyrgyzstan_  or  _Kirghizia_
\par 
\par 18.  On December 8, 1660, this character's role became the first in the history of English theatre to be played by a female actress.  Just who played the part at Killigrew
's theatre that day is not certain, but it _is_ known that in a U.S. Army production during the Mexican War, it was played by Ulysses S. Grant. FTP name this Shakespeare character, a daughter of Brabantio who marries against the wishes of her Venetian sen
ator father, and ends up being murdered by her jealous Moorish husband.
\par Answer:  _Desdemona_
\par 
\par 19.  A constituent assembly met in Eidsvoll on May 17, 1814, and drew up a constitution, declaring itself an independent monarchy with Christian Frederick as king.
  Two months later, the country was attacked by its neighbor, where Napoleon's former Marshal of France was running things. The new rulers were gracious enough to allow the country to retain its constitution, but by the Convention of Moss, Charles XIII wa
s chosen king. FTP name this country that, until 1905, shared its crown with Sweden.
\par Answer:  _Norway_  (or _Norge_)
\par 
\par 20.  In the most common modern sense of this two-word phrase, the first recorded use in English dates from 1920, in a book written by Ethel
 Snowden, the wife of a British Labour Party MP.  Twenty-six years later, it was made more famous in a speech given at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri.  "From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic," for 10 points, what did Winston Churc
hill say had descended across Europe?
\par Answer:  _iron curtain_
\par 
\par 21.  It was invented by Herbert Kalmus, Daniel Comstock, and Ernest Wescott, and they named it after their alma mater -- MIT.  It used a beam-splitting optical cube, with the red, blue and green
 portions of the spectrum being captured on separate bands of black-and-white film. FTP name this motion picture process.
\par Answer:  _Technicolor_
\par 
\par 22.  It's located at 43 degrees south and 11 degrees west, measuring 53 miles in diameter and about 2 and a ha
lf miles deep.  Its aluminum-rich highland material was analyzed in 1968 when Surveyor 7 landed there. FTP what is this prominent lunar crater named for a Danish astronomer?
\par Answer:  _Tycho_
\par 
\par 23.  Colonel Sartoris remitted her taxes after her father died, but after Sartoris died, the new Board of Aldermen with more modern ideas didn't believe it should follow this edict.  FTP who is this title character who lives in a bad-smelling house in a s
tory by William Faulkner?
\par Answer:  Miss _Emily_ Grierson
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\adjustright \f5 {\f4 
"Chapter sixty-two.  A Bad Thing.  America was thus clearly top nation, and History came to a full stop."  So ends this work that also includes "103 Good Things, 5 Bad Kings, and 2 Genuine Dates" -- 
the first date being 55 B.C., when "the _memorable_ Roman emperor" Julius Caesar landed at Thanet, and the other date being mentioned in the title of the book, written in 1931 by Walter Sellar and Robert Yeatman.  FTP name this classic parody of English h
istory, about the Battle of Hastings and much more.
\par Answer:  _1066 And All That_:  A Memorable History of England
\par 
\par A duke, a bishop, a judge and a financier lead their wives, four "historians" and 34 others to a castle in the Black Forest.  Each historian c
hronicles the events of one month from November to February, with each month devoted to 150 "passions" of the simple, double, criminal or murderous varieties.  Ten of the victims are killed during this period, while twenty others are murdered before the r
ingleaders return to Paris.  First published in 1904, more than a century after it was written by a prisoner in the Bastille, FTP what is this novel by the Marquis de Sade?
\par Answer:  _120 Days of Sodom_:  The School of Dissipation
\par          _Les 120 Journees de Sodome_:  L'Ecole de libertinage
\par 
\par It's based on the so-called "A plus B theorem".  If "A" represents total wages paid to individuals who produce goods, and "B" represents total costs of production, then "A" must always be less than "B".  Hence the commu
nity will not have enough money to buy all goods and services produced.  Major C. H. Douglas therefore proposed that the government pay regular cash dividends. In 1935, Bill Aberhart's government was elected on this platform, but the "funny money" plan ra
n into constitutional obstacles.  FTP what is this economic theory that spawned political parties in Alberta and British Columbia?
\par Answer:  _social credit_
\par 
\par The term "red Indian" was first applied to members of this New World tribe. Their apparent skin colo
r came from the red ochre that they smeared on their bodies as protection against insects in summer and the cold in winter.  With powerful enemies in the Micmac and the French, they were hunted to extinction, and the last one, Nancy Shanawhdit, died in 18
29.  FTP name this people that the Vikings called Skraelings, who were met again by Europeans in 1497 when John Cabot landed on the island of Newfoundland.
\par Answer:  _Beothuk_
\par 
\par Heavy snow fell in New England on June 6th and 11th, 1816, and crop failures occu
rred in North America and Europe in the "year without a summer".  Eighty thousand people died of starvation halfway around the world, in addition to those killed by tsunamis and the massive explosion on the island of Sumbawa. FTP, on April 10 and 11, 1815
, what volcano erupted in Indonesia?
\par Answer:  Mount _Tambora_   (or Gunung _Tambora_)
\par (Do not accept Krakatoa.  That was a different volcano, and erupted in 1883.)
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\adjustright \f5 {\f4 \page }{\f4\fs36 Bonuses by MIT for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{\f4 
\par 1.  [Hand out page showing scores:  scores.jpg]
\par You have just been given the beginnings of the scores of three piano works by Ludwig van Beethoven.  Name the works for 10 points each.  You have 15 seconds.
\par Answers:
\par 1.  _Fuer Elise_
\par 2.  _Moonlight Sonata_    (no. 14, op. 27, no. 2, in C# minor)
\par     or _Mondscheinsonate_
\par     or _Sonata quasi una Fantasia_ per il clavicembalo o piano-forte
\par 3.  _Sonata Pathetique_   (op. 13, no. 8)
\par     or  _Pathetic Sonata_
\par 
\par 2.  For 10 points each, name these unsuccessful American political figures with real or imagined mental health problems.
\par 1.  In 1964, this losing presidential nominee was mocked by his opponents with the slogan, "In your guts, you know he's nuts."
\par Answer:  Barry Morris _Goldwater_
\par 2.  In 1967, this Mormon governor of Michigan destroyed his chances for the Republican presidential nomination when he claimed to have been "brainwashed" by the military about the Vietnam War.
\par Answer:  George _Romney_
\par 3.  In 1972, this Democratic nominee for Vice President was forced off the ticket after admitting that he had previously allowed himself to be hospitalized for "nervous exhaustion", and once had electroshock therapy.
\par Answer:  Thomas Francis _Eagleton_
\par 
\par 3.  Name the poem from lines, 30-20-10.
\par 30:  "Yet all experience is an arch wherethro'
\par Gleams that untraveled world, whose margin fades
\par For ever and for ever when I move."
\par 20:"Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will
\par To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."
\par 10:"And drunk delight of battle with my peers,
\par Far on the ringing plains of windy Troy."
\par Answer:  _Ulysses_, by Alfred, Lord Tennyson
\par 
\par 4.  [Hand out picture of building:  bldg.jpg]
\par You have just been handed a picture of a 70-story skyscraper that was completed in 1990.
\par 1.  For 10 points, in what major city is this the tallest building?
\par Answer:  _Hong Kong_, China   (or _Xianggang_)
\par 2.  At the time it was built, the structure shown was the tallest building not only in Hong Kong, but anywhere outside the United States.  For 10 points each, name the financial institution that commissioned the buil
ding, and the architect who designed it.
\par Answers:  _Bank of China_;  Ieoh Ming _Pei_
\par 
\par 5.  Answer these questions about the adhan, the Islamic call to ritual prayer, for 10 points apiece.
\par 1.  What is the name of the official who proclaims the adhan from the mosque five times a day?
\par  Answer:  _muezzin_  ["mu-EZZ-in"]   (or _mu`addin_)
\par 2.  What is the name of the tower of a mosque from which a muezzin gives the call to prayer?
\par Answer:  _minaret_   (or _manarah_)
\par 3.  The adhan begins with a phrase meaning "God is great" proclaimed four times.  What is this Arabic phrase?
\par Answer:  _Allahu akbar_
\par 
\par 6.  The basic word order of an English sentence is Subject, Verb, Object.  This makes English an "SVO" language.  Other languages can be classified as SOV, OSV, OVS, VOS or VSO.  For 10 points each:
\par 1.  Which of these six classifications is the most common, and occurs in Japanese, Korean, Turkish, and Latin?
\par Answer:  _SOV_  (_S_ubject, _O_bject, _V_erb)
\par 2.  Although the modern colloquial languages tend more towards SVO, Biblical Hebrew and Classical Arabic share what other word-order classification?
\par Answer:  _VSO_
\par 3.  Of the 6 classifications, which one is the least common, shared by a handful of languages in the Amazon and New Guinea, and the extinct Mobilian Jargon of the American Gulf Coast?
\par Answer:  _OSV_
\par 
\par 7.  Identify each of these B-complex vitamins, for 10 points apiece.
\par 1.  Of all the B vitamins, it has the largest recommended daily dose.  A coenzyme that catalyzes oxidation of sugar derivatives, a deficiency of it causes pellagra.
\par Answer:  _niacin_  or  B_3_  or  _nicotinic acid_
\par 2.  A deficiency of this yellow vitamin can result in lesions around the mouth. Good sources are dairy products, eggs, broccoli and spinach.
\par Answer:  _riboflavin_  or  B_2_
\par 3.  A single gram is enough to supply 20 people for a lifetime, but lack of absorption can cause pernicious anemia.  Vegans ["VEE-guns"] need to take supplements of it because it does not occur naturally in plants.
\par Answer:  B_12_  or  cyano_cobalamin_
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the following about the Roman emperor Caracalla FTPE.
\par 1.  Caracalla was the second Emperor from this dynastic family founded by Septimius which held the imperial title intermittently from 193 to 235.
\par Answer:  _SEVERAN_ or _SEVERI_
\par 2.  Following his father's death in 211, Caracalla shared the emperorship with this younger brother.  Caracalla's animosity toward him was 
so strong that a little over a year later, he had him murdered in their mother's arms in her apartment in the imperial palace.
\par Answer:  Publius Septimius _GETA_
\par 3.  This law, which extended Roman citizenship to all within the Empire, was derided by contemp
orary critics as being designed by Caracalla only to collect more taxes.  Its name comes from the nomen adopted by the Severans as a link to the fourth "good emperor."
\par Answer: _CONSTITUTIO ANTONINIANA_ de Civitate or _ANTONINE_ constitution
\par 
\par 9.  30-20-10, Name the American.
\par 30: As a member of the "Fugitives" at Vanderbilt University, along with John Crow Ransom, Allen Tate, and others, he helped publish the anthology _I'll Take My Stand_ in 1930.  After graduation, he went to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
\par 20:  He was appointed the first poet laureate of the United States in 1986 before dying in 1989.
\par 10: A two-time winner of the Pulitzer prize in poetry, and once more in fiction, he is perhaps best known for his fictionalized portrayal of Huey Long in _All The King's Men_.
\par Answer:  Robert Penn _Warren_
\par 
\par 10.  From November 1941 through April 1945, an unusual ghetto was set up by the Nazis.  Dubbed "Paradiesghetto," it was (after much artificial prettying) granted a clean bill of health by the International Red C
ross, who was convinced that the Nazis were humanely treating their Jewish prisoners.  FTPE:
\par 1.  Name the camp, through which over 140 thousand people passed, most from Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Austria.
\par Answer:  _Theresienstadt_ ["tay-RAY-zee-en-shtaht"]
\par           or _Terezin_ ["TARE-ez-een"]
\par 2. Theresienstadt was located in the hills near what major Eastern European City.
\par Answer:  _Prague_   (or _Praha_)
\par 3.  In 1978, a collection of writings and drawings by the children of the underground school were published by a New York press.  Give the title, which is also the title of one of the poems in the collection.
\par Answer:  _I Never Saw Another Butterfly_: Children's Drawings and Poems from Terezin Concentration Camp, 1942-1944
\par 
\par 11.  Name the river that drains each of these lakes, for 10 points apiece.
\par 1.  Lake Huron
\par Answer:  _Saint Clair_ River
\par 2.  Lake Victoria
\par Answer:  _White Nile_ River
\par 3.  Lake Geneva
\par Answer:  _Rhone_ River  (NOT Rhine!)
\par 
\par 12.  Answer the following questions about the French philosopher Henri Bergson FTPE.
\par 1.  In "Matter and Memory" Bergson concluded that memory and the mind are independent of the body from his study of what psychological phenomenon, the loss of the ability to use language?
\par Answer:  _aphasia_, or _dysphasia_
\par 2.  In which 1907 work did Bergson propose that the process of life should be seen as the endurance of a vital impulse, which he termed the "elan vital," that is continually developing and generating new
\par forms?
\par Answer:  _Creative Evolution_, or L'_Evolution Creatrice_
\par 3.  Bergson's theory of duration, or time experienced and perceived by an individual, figures prominently in what seven-volume novel written by his cousin-in-law?
\par Answer:  _A la Recherche du Temps Perdu_ or _In Search of Lost Time_ or _Remembrance of Things Past_ by Marcel Proust
\par 
\par 13.  Answer the following questions about factorials, for 15 points each.
\par 1.  Given that a googol is 10 to the one hundredth power, what is the largest number whose factorial is less than a googol?
\par Answer:  _69_
\par [Note:  this is also the largest number whose factorial can be computed on most pocket calculators.  Anyone who has played with a calculator a lot will know this.]
\par 2.  Pencil and paper ready.  Stirling's approximation formula may help here. Take the natural logarithm of the fa
ctorial of N, divide this by N, and then subtract the natural logarithm of N.  For large N, the result approaches what constant?  You have 25 seconds.
\par Answer:  _-1_  (_minus one_ or _negative one_)
\par [Stirling's approximation to N! is:  (N/e)^N * sqrt(2*pi*N).
\par Thus log(N!) is approximately:  N log(N/e) + 1/2 * log(2*pi*N).
\par Dividing by N, then the above expression approaches:  log(N/e) = log(N) - 1.]
\par 
\par 14.  For 10 points each, given a description of an important treaty of the European Union, name the town where it was signed.
\par 1.  March 25, 1957:  Six nations establish the European Economic Community.
\par Answer:  _Rome_, Italy
\par .  June 14, 1985:  Five members of the European Community agree to abolish controls at their common borders.
\par Answer:  _Schengen_, Belgium
\par 3.  February 7, 1992:  The twelve members of the European Community establish a European Union providing for common citizenship.
\par Answer:  _Maastricht_, Netherlands
\par 
\par 15.  Answer these questions about isotopes used in nuclear reactors, FTP each.
\par 1.  The most common fissile material used in reactors is what isotope of uranium?
\par Answer:  uranium-_235_
\par 2.  Uranium-235 accounts for less than 1 per cent of naturally occurring uranium; what non-fissile isotope accounts for more than 99%?
\par Answer:  uranium-_238_
\par 3.  Some breeder reactors use the 232 isotope of this element because it captures slow-moving neutrons and decays into fissionable uranium-233.
\par Answer:  _thorium_
\par 
\par [This might sound "wrong" to some players; here are the reactions:
\par                         90-Th-232 + n ===> 90-Th-233
\par                         90-Th-233     ===> 91-Pa-233 + beta
\par                         91-Pa-233     ===> 92-U-233 + beta.]
\par 
\par 16.  5-10-15, answer these questions about the Electoral Dispute of 1876.
\par For 5:  The Republican nomination of Rutherford B. Hayes dashed his hopes of a third term, despite his 1872 overwhelming reelection victory over Horace Greeley.
\par Answer:  Hiram Ulysses S. _Grant_
\par For 10:  This Democratic candidate received the majority of the popular vote, but didn't fare as well in the electoral college.
\par Answer:  Samuel Jones _Tilden_
\par For 15:  To resolve the dispute, Congress created the Electoral Commission of 1877, composed of senators, representatives, and four Supreme Court justices. With the 14 members split evenl
y on party lines, the justices were asked to name a fifth.  David Davis' refusal to accept the position led to this associate justice's appointment, which swung the balance of the commission to the Republicans, who installed Hayes into office.
\par Answer:  Joseph P. _Bradley_
\par 
\par 17.  Identify the following mythological battles for the stated number of points.
\par 1. For 5.  After this battle, whose name is Old Norse for "Doom of the Gods", two human beings named Lif and Lifthrasir will repopulate the world.
\par Answer:  _Ragnarok_
\par 2. For 10. Two answers required. The battle between this Thessalian tribe and this neighboring group of animal-men broke out at the wedding of their king, Pirithous, who was also a friend of Theseus.
\par Answers:   _Lapiths_ and _Centaurs_
\par 3. For 15.  It was at this battle that King Arthur suffered a mortal wound inflicted by his nephew Mordred.
\par Answer:  Battle of _Camlan_
\par 
\par 18.  Identify the following influences on T.S. Eliot's poem, "The Hollow Men."
\par 1.  Both the Epigraph, "A penny for the old Guy," and the final stanza allude to this failed conspiracy.
\par Answer:  the _Gunpowder Plot_  of 1605           (prompt on "Guy _Fawkes_")
\par 2.     "But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
\par         Make gallant show and promise of their mettle;
\par         But when they should endure the bloody spur,
\par         They fail their crests, and like deceitful jades,
\par         Sink in the trial."
\par These lines, which influenced Eliot's title and themes, are from what play featuring a conspiracy of men who, like those of the Gunpowder Plot, resort to violence and who are blinded by their cause?
\par Answer:  _Julius Caesar_  by William Shakespeare
\par 3.  For the reprinting of the poem in the collection, "Selected Poems," Eliot added to the Epigraph the words spoken by a servant reporting the death of this "hollow sham", a character created by Joseph Conrad.
\par Answer:  _Kurtz_
\par 
\par 19.  The recent Scottish referendum on constitutional devolution just happened to take place on September 11, 1997.  This date was an exact multicentenary of a famous Scottish military victory over a much larger English army led by the earl of Surrey.

\par 1.  For 10 points each, give the name of this battle fought by the River Forth, and the year it took place.
\par Answers:  battle of _Stirling Bridge_; _1297_
\par 2.  For 10 more points, name the leader of the victorious Scots at the Battle of Stirling Bridge.
\par Answer:  William _Wallace_
\par 
\par 20.  For 10 points each, name these stock characters from the Italian commedia dell'arte.
\par 1.  A clever, amoral, high-spirited valet, he wears a black half mask and a tight-fitting costume decorated with triangles and diamond shapes.
\par Answer:  _Harlequin_ or _Arlecchino_ or _Arlequin_
\par 2.  A simple-minded and honest comic servant, his face is whitened with powder, and he wears a white hat and a white jacket with a neck ruff and large buttons down the front.
\par Answer:  _Pierrot_ or _Pedrolino_
\par 3.  Brutal and vindictive, this hook-nosed and humpbacked character evolved into the puppet Punch from Punch and Judy.
\par Answer:  _Pulcinella_
\par 
\par 21.  Answer these questions about high-speed trains.
\par 1.  The world's fastest conventional train, which can travel up to 515 kilometres per hour, is what French train known by its 3-letter abbreviation?
\par Answer:  _TGV_         or  _Train_ a _Grande Vitesse_
\par 2.  What Japanese train on Honshu and Kyushu travels up to 443 kilometres per hour?
\par Answer:  _Shinkansen_  (or _New Trunk Line_)         or _bullet_
\par 3.  The Japanese MLX01 and the German Transrapid are prototypes that use what high-speed rail technology requiring an elevated guideway?
\par Answer:  _maglev_,  or  _magnetic levitation_
\par 
\par 22.  Name these igneous rocks from a description, for 10 points each.
\par 1. A dark gray to black dense to fine-grained rock that consists of basic plagioclase, augite, and usually magnetite.
\par Answer:  _basalt_
\par 2.  A very hard rock formation of visibly crystalline texture formed essentially of quartz and orthoclase or microcline.
\par Answer:  _granite_
\par 3.  Usually black, it is natural glass of volcanic origin.
\par Answer:  _obsidian_
\par }\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\adjustright \f7\fs20 {\f4\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\adjustright \f5 {\f4 [Hand out page showing constellations:  consts.jpg]
\par For 10 points each, identify the three constellations shown in this picture.  As a hint:  all of them belong to the zodiac.  To help you, we've indicated the brightest star in each. You have 15 seconds.
\par Answers:
\par 1.  _Taurus_
\par 2.  _Virgo_
\par 3.  _Leo_
\par 
\par [The names of the stars may be too blurry to read.  They are Aldebaran,
\par Spica, and Regulus.  I don't really care if players can't read them,
\par because these are not necessary clues anyway.]
\par 
\par For 10 points each, given the opening line by a female American author, name the 20th-century novel.
\par 1.  "Howard Roark laughed."
\par Answer:  The _Fountainhead_
\par          by Ayn Rand
\par 2.  "There were 117 psychoanalysts on the Pan Am flight to Vienna and I'd
\par been treated by at least six of them."
\par Answer:  _Fear of Flying_
\par          by Erica Jong
\par 3.  "124 was spiteful."
\par Answer:  _Beloved_
\par          by Toni Morrison
\par 
\par For 10 points each, give these addresses of foreign ministries of historic great powers.
\par 1.  The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs is still located at number 37 of what Paris street along the river Seine?
\par Answer:  _Quai d'Orsay_
\par 2.  Until 1945, the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs was located at number 75 of what Berlin street named for a celebrated Kaiser?
\par Answer:  _Wilhelmstrasse_
\par 3.  Under the Ottoman Empire, the offices of the Foreign Ministry were located behind what famous gate in Constantinople?
\par Answer:  the Sublime _Porte_    or   _Babiali_
\par 
\par Thomas Mann spoke of this novelist's influence on modern German literature by saying simply, "He is our father".  That was at the unveiling of a memorial in Berlin in 1910, twelve years after his death.  For 15 points each:
\par 1.  Who was this realist author of novels about upper-class Prussian society such as _Before the Storm_ and _Trials and Tribulations_?
\par Answer:  Theodor _Fontane_  ["fon-TAW-nuh"]
\par 2.  In one of Fontane's best-known works, the Baron von Innstetten discovers that seven years earlier, his young bride, the title character, has had a
n affair with a Major Crampas.  His sense of honor compels him to divorce his wife and to challenge Crampas to a duel, in which Crampas dies.  What is this 1895 novel?
\par Answer:  _Effi Briest_
\par 
\par Identify the following about St. Augustine FTPE.
\par 1.  As a young man Augustine was an adherent to this dualistic religion of Persian origin.
\par Answer:  _Manichaeism_ or _Manichaean_
\par 2.  Eight years after conferring Baptism onto Augustine in 388, this Bishop of Milan, who was later canonized, presented a funeral oration for the Emperor Theodosius.
\par Answer:  St. _Ambrose_ or _Ambrosius_
\par 3.  This literary work of Augustine took the form of a Christian apologetic against the pagan claim that the Visigothic sack of Rome in 410 was a punishment of Rome's departure from its ancestral religion.
\par Answer:  _De Civitate Dei_ or  The _City of God_
\par 
\par Name these royal heads of state in Indochina, for 10 points each.
\par 1.  He was king of Vietnam from 1926 to 1945, and died in 1997.
\par Answer:  _Bao Dai_ or Nguyen Vinh _Thuy_
\par 2.  This son of the Viceroy of Luang Prabang formed the Communist Pathet Lao in 1950, and was president from 1975 to 1986.  He died in 1995.
\par Answer:  Prince _Souphanouvong_
\par 3.  King of Cambodia from 1941 to 1955, he became head of state again in 1991, and was again made king two years later.
\par Answer:  Samdesh Preach Norodom _Sihanouk_
\par 
\par Answer the following about patents and copyrights, for 15 points each.
\par 1.  Following the GATT Uruguay Round Agreements Act of 1994, the term of a utility patent in the United States is being extended from 17 years to how many years?
\par Answer:  _20_ years
\par 2.  Under current U.S. law, a copyright for a work by a single attributed author lasts as long as the author lives, plus how many years?
\par Answer:  _50_ years
\par 
\par Identify these works by Jorge Luis Borges, for 10 points each.
\par 1.  A detective named Loennrot follows clues relating to the name of God.
\par Answer:  _Death and the Compass_
\par B.  A man trying to recreate the world through poetry shows his friend
\par the Universe below the stairs.
\par Answer:  The _Aleph_
\par C.  A mystic visionary attempts to dream a human into being.
\par Answer:  The _Circular Ruins_
\par 
\par }}