{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\f4 \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s2 \ql \sl240 \f22 \sbasedon222 \snext2 Default;}{\*\cs3 \additive \ql \sl240 \f4 \fs18 \snext3 Default SS;}{\s4 \qc \sl240 \fs28 \b \sbasedon2 \snext4 Header;}{\s5 \ql \sl240 \sbasedon2 \snext5 Body;}{\s6 \qc \sl240 \i \sbasedon2 \snext6 Footer;}{\s7 \ql \sl240 \fs20 \sbasedon2 \snext7 Footnote;}{\*\cs8 \additive \ql \sl240 \up6 \snext8 Footnote Index;}}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1200 {\headerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\headerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl360 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Tossups by Swarthmore for the 1998 ACF Regionals}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  It began in 1702 with an English attack on St. Augustine, Florida, and continued with a joint French and Indian attack on the Connecticut Valley in 1704.  The war's longest campaign ended when Francis Nicholson and 4000 New England colonists captured P}{\f21 ort Royal in 1711, conquering Acadia and making it the British province of Nova Scotia.  FTP, name this New World conflict contemporaneous with the War of the Spanish Succession and named for the successor of King William III.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Queen Anne's War_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  It takes the form of a philosophical dialogue, including the poet Orontes, who asks for honest criticism from the title character, receives it, and vows revenge; Philinte, who preaches the natural defects of man and the need for politeness;  Celimene, }{\f21 who flirts with her many suitors; and Alceste, who pursues Celimene and demands complete honesty and strict morality.  FTP, name this pessimistic 1666 play by Moliere.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _LE MISANTHROPE_ or _THE MISANTHROPE_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  First performed in the palace of Prince von Schwarzenberg on on April 29-30, 1798, and quickly became the most performed musical work in nineteenth century Germany.  Based on a libretto compiled from Milton's Paradise Lost, the Catholic Church attacked}{\f21  it as far too lighthearted a work for its theme.  FTP, name this oratorio by Franz Joseph Haydn, intended by its composer to rival Handel's Messiah.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: The _CREATION_  (also accept: Die _SCHOEPFUNG)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  Its discoverer, the Scottish physicist C.T.R. Wilson, spent 16 years working on it and ultimately shared the 1927 Nobel Prize with Arthur Compton for his work.  Wilson began by attempting to duplicate the effects of clouds on mountaintops, by expanding}{\f21  air within a container and cooling it until it became supersaturated.  Then Wilson used dust-free air, added radiation, and over time perfected, FTP, this invention, the development of which was crucial to nuclear physics and the study of sub-atomic parti}{\f21 cles.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _cloud chamber_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  When his brother Thyestes had an affair with his wife Aerope, he vowed revenge.  He killed Thyestes' two sons, had them torn limb from limb and boiled, and fed them to his brother-- cursing his family for several generations, beginning with the murder }{\f21 of his son by Thyestes' youngest child, Aegisthus.  FTP, name this father of Menelaus and Agamemnon and grandfather of Orestes and Electra.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Atreus_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  An adjutant general under Horatio Gates, he was active in the "Conway Cabal" (an attempt to supplant George Washington  ) and was a rival of Anthony Wayne and George Rogers Clark for American military leadership in the West.  In 1787, he secretly swore}{\f21  allegiance to Spain, but was nevertheless appointed commanding general of the US army and governor of the Louisiana Territory.  FTP, name this army officer and conspirator, best known for helping Aaron Burr in his plot against the U.S. government before b}{\f21 etraying him as well.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: James _WILKINSON_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7.  The phenomenon was first observed in two species of Brazilian forest butterflies in 1862, and Charles Darwin hailed the article in which the explanation was first published (in the Transactions of the Linnaean Society) as evidence that species experien}{\f21 ced evolution.  A more famous example appears in the monarch and viceroy butterflies, since birds find the former noxious and therefore avoid the similarly colored viceroy.  FTP, name this type of mimicry, in which a harmless animal gains protection by evo}{\f21 lving to look like a noxious or poisonous relative.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Batesian mimicry_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8.  After writing a campaign biography of Abraham Lincoln, he was appointed the U.S. consul in Venice.  Upon his return, he became assistant editor of The Atlantic Monthly before moving up to editor-in-chief in 1871.  Over the next decade, he published wor}{\f21 ks such as Their Wedding Journey and A Chance Acquaintance and encouraged realist and naturalist writers like Henry James and Stephen Crane.  FTP, identify this early realist writer, the author of The Rise of Silas Lapham.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: William Dean _HOWELLS_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9.  Among its most prominent politicians is former Russian parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov, though Aslan Maskhadov is its current president and Dzhokar Dudayev led its independence drive.  Known in Russia as a center of organized crime, it was the su}{\f21 bject of stories of Caucasian revolt by Lermontov and Tolstoi.  FTP, name this region, whose capital is Grozny, which fought a gruesome war of independence with Russia.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Chechnya (prompt on Chechen-Ingush; do not accept Ingushetia)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10.  According to tradition, he was the son of the warrior Finn MacCumhail and lived to be over 300 years old, during which time he championed paganism and opposed the teachings of Saint Patrick.  Poems attributed to him were collected in Ireland and Scotl}{\f21 and through the 1500s, and in 1760, the 24-year-old Scotsman James Macpherson claimed to have discovered several of this man's works, including the epic poems Fingal and Temora. FTP, name this legendary Gael, the center of a literary scandal surrounding Ma}{\f21 cpherson that helped inspire ROmantic writers.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Ossian (also accept: Oisin)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11.  It was first proposed by the Allied Supreme Council as an armistice line after World War I, extending south from Grodno just past Bialystok and through Brest-Litovsk before following the Bug River to Sokoly and cutting across to the Carpathian mountai}{\f21 ns.  After the 1920 war between Russia and Poland, the armistice line was ignored and the border was set farther east, however, until the Soviets claimed all land east of the line in 1939 under the Hitler-Stalin Pact.  FTP, name this line, post-war Poland'}{\f21 s eastern border.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: the _CURZON LINE_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12.  The horizontal axis represents the population, while the vertical axis corresponds to income; hence, with perfect income distribution, the curve will be a 45 degree-line and deviations from that line show the existence of poverty.  FTP, identify this }{\f21 economic representation for income inequality.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _LORENZ CURVE_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13.  The Superconducting Supercollider was designed to produce these as-yet undiscovered particles in large numbers, and the SSC's demise has postponed the search for them.  Theorized to permeate the universe like a sort of magnetic field, these particles }{\f21 are thought to interact with different sub-atomic particles in different ways, with the strengths of the interaction perceived by us as mass.  FTP, name this theoretical particle, named for the Scottish physicist who first theorized its existence.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Higgs Boson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  When the Boston Globe decided to drop the "Amazing Spiderman" comic strip, he wrote a letter to the editor that convinced it to reverse its decision;  X years before, he began his literary career as a writer for the "About Town" section of the New Yor}{\f21 ker.  He has published works of poetry including Stories of the Afterlife and is a 2-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction for his novels about Harry Angstrom.  FTP, name the author of "Rabbit at Rest."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: John _Updike_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15.  It took the form of a 365-page letter "to a gentleman in Paris," and began with an attack on the entry of the clergy into politics.  It proceeded to criticize universal male suffrage and complete political equality (since the evils of the majority wou}{\f21 ld be worse than those of a king), to praise religion, aristocracy, and hereditary monarchy, and to hail Louis XIV as "a mild and lawful monarch."  "The age of chivalry is gone," it concluded, and with the events in France, "the glory of Europe is extingui}{\f21 shed forever."  FTP, name this 1790 work by Edmund Burke.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Reflections on the Revolution in France_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16.  Born in Vienna, he worked in a number of jobs-- including as an army officer, playwright, and railroadman-- before coming to the United States in 1914.  There he became an actor, and was an assistant to D.W. Griffith in The Birth of A Nation and Intol}{\f21 erance.  Soon he began to direct his own films, including 1919's Blind Husbands and 1925's Foolish Wives, and he won a reputation as a spendthrift and a perfectionist (who delayed filming the latter movie for a day because the gold rims on 1000 champagne g}{\f21 lasses were a quarter inch too narrow.)  FTP, name this post-World War I film director of such movies as The Merry Widow, Queen Kelly, and Greed.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Erich von _STROHEIM_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17.  Until 1932 it was known as the gauss, before that became the term for the unit of mathematical induction.  It is defined as the intensity of a magnetic field in a vacuum in which a unit magnetic pole experiences a magnetic force of one dyne in the dir}{\f21 ection of the field.  FTP, identify this CGS unit of magnetic field strength, named for a Danish physicist.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _oersted_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18.  Officially, it ended only with the overthrow of Bahadur Shah II in 1857, though the dynasty had steadily lost power to the British for over 100 years.  It began with the conquests of Kabul and Lahore in 1504 and 1507, and spread with further victories}{\f21  at Panipat, Khanua, and on the Gogra by Babar, and during the eighteenth century entered into an uneasy relationship with the British East India Company.  FTP, name this last Moslem empire of India, most famous for Shah Jahan and his Taj Mahal.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _MOGUL_ or MUGHAL_ empire or dynasty\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19.  An avid birdwatcher, he was particularly proud of his sighting of a rare prothonotary warbler, which came back to haunt him in a later congressional hearing.  A former clerk to Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, he joined FDR's State Departm}{\f21 ent in 1936, moving up the ranks to accompany Roosevelt to Yalta in 1945 and to become the Secretary General of the 1946 San Francisco conference at which the UN was founded. After leaving government to head the Carnegie Endowment, however, he was accused }{\f21 by Whittaker Chambers of having spied for the USSR in the 1930s. FTP, name this accused spy, convicted of perjury in 1950.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Alger _HISS_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20.  Pope Paul III called it in 1545 after aborted attempts to meet in Mantua and Vicenza, and Pope Pius IV confirmed its decrees in 1564 in his _Profession of the Tridentine Faith_.  It rejected Pelangianism and defended the Sacraments, and it addressed b}{\f21 ut did not resolve the problem of episcopal residency. For ten points, name this Catholic council that began the Counter Reformation and is named for the North Italian city in which it met.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _COUNCIL OF TRENT_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 21.  Its name is derived from the Latin for "sewer", and it can be found in every vertebrate but placental mammals.  It is the most common excretory organ among amphibians, birds, reptiles, and some fish, and it is present in the platypus and the echidna. }{\f21  FTP, name this chamber and outlet, into which the intestinal, urinary, and genital tracts all open.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _cloaca_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 22.  When hydrogen gas and oxygen gas combine to form water vapor, the ratio of the volumes of these gases is always 2:1:2 (assuming that temperature and pressure remain constant), since (according to Avogadro's Law) the number of molecules in a given volu}{\f21 me of gases is the same for all elements and thus the molecules must combine in the same simple proportions.  This is an example, FTP, of what basic gas law, named for the scientist who discovered it in 1808?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Gay-Lussac's law_ of combining volumes\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 23.  It begins in a military camp in the Caucasus, where a Serbian army officer with notorious bad luck challenges the odds and wins a round of Russian roulette, despite the certainty of a colleague that he was going to die.  The story continues with the m}{\f21 urder of the Serb by a drunken Cossack later that night, and with the daring capture of the Cossack by Pechorin, the story's protagonist.  FTP, name this short story my Lermontov, the final part of A Hero of Our Time.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: The _FATALIST_  (Do Not Accept: A Hero of Our Time-- the work as a whole does not begin in a military camp)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 25.  In 1702, John Dennis wrote that this play had been written at the request of Queen Elizabeth, who wanted to see Falstaff in love.  The plot revolves around Falstaff's financially inspired courtship of the title characters, Mistresses Ford and Page.  F}{\f21 TP, name this 1601 Shakespearean drama, set in the British royal palace.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: The Merry Wives of Windsor\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 26.  Though it has many variations, the most frequent style includes two vertical cylindrical posts, topped by two horizontal beams (the top one of which is often arched.)  Many are painted bright red, and are located either at a sacred mountain or rock or}{\f21  in a shrine, between the outer limits of a sacred area and the inner sanctuary.  FTP, identify this ceremonial gateway to the sacred precincts of Japanese Shinto temples.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _TORII_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 27.  Most of its climate is moderate continental, though the Beli Drim Valley in the south experiences mediterranean weather.  Much of the area is drained by the Sitnica River, while the main cities are Mitrovica, Prizren, Pec, and the capital, Pristina.  }{\f21 The vast majority of the people are ethnic Albanians, though there is a sizable Serbian minority.  FTP, name this province of Serbia, most famous for the 1389 battle at which the Turks defeated the Serbs.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Kosovo\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 28.  His first known work is a triptych representing the Passion and Resurrection of Christ, now located at the Sebalduskirche in Nuernberg, Germany, while his final work, a series of seven reliefs showing the stations of the cross, showed the simplicity p}{\f21 resent in many of his reliefs.  Born in the mid-fifteenth century in Nuernberg, he became part of the school of sculpture named for that city and is best known for the tabernacle of the Lorenzkirche there.  FTP, name this German sculptor, famous for his re}{\f21 straint and simplicity.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Adam _KRAFT_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 29.  It was founded by a seventeenth-century Dutchman born in Utrecht of Catholic parents, but was closely influenced by the Augustinian theology of the Calvinists; it attacked free will, championed predestination, and denounced moral laxity.  FTP, name th}{\f21 \cf5 is Roman Catholic religious movement that clashed with the Jesuits, opposed the absolutism of Louis XIV (and thereby earned the persecution of the state), and won the loyalty of Jean Racine and Blaise Pascal.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: _JANSENISM_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 30.  He could speak 18 languages, including both Latin and Greek, which he taught at the University of Salamanca; he learned Danish so that he could read Kierkegaard in the original.  He wrote several short novels, including 1931's San Miguel bueno, martir}{\f21 \cf5 , and won acclaim for his philosophical works, including The Tragic Sense of Life in Men and in Peoples.  FTP, name this Basque-Spanish philosopher, known for exploring the relationship between faith and reason and the longing for immortality.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: Miguel de _UNAMUNO_ y Jugo\par 
}\pard \pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \page \s2 \ql \sl360 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Bonus Questions by Swarthmore for the 1998 ACF Regionals\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For the stated number of points, identify the following characters from David Copperfield:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  Identify the obsequious court clerk who speaks constantly of "umble pie":\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Uriah _HEEP_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10: Name Copperfield's second wife:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _AGNES_ Wickfield\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15: Name Copperfield's stepfather:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Mr. _MURDSTONE_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Answer the following questions about the work of Sir Edward Elgar, for the stated number of points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5 points: This set of five marches contains the section "The Land of Hope and Glory," and is frequently played at graduations.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Pomp and Circumstance_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This 1896 orchestral work  was, Elgar said, based on the countermelody of a well-known tune that he refused to reveal, lending the piece its name.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Enigma Variations_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This oratorio, seen by many as Elgar's masterpiece, was based on a poem by Cardinal John Henry Newman that described the title figure's visions of heaven and purgatory.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _Dream of Gerontius_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Name the plant hormone, 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. In fruits, it is a ripening hormone, but in senescent leaves it inhibits growth and causes abscission; it is the only gaseous plant hormone.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _ethylene_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. This group of hormones promote cell division and differentiation, aid in fruit development and the formation of roots from cuttings, while promoting phototropism and discouraging gravitotropism.  It also proomotes the lengthwise growth of plants.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _auxin_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. These hormones stimulate the growth of stems, while aiding in the bolting of rosette plants (like carrots) that have been exposed to unusual environmental stimuli.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _giberellin_s\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  Given a quote, identify the Edgar Allan Poe poem for the stated number of points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5 points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 " And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Of my darling-- my darling-- my life and my bride."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Annabel Lee\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10 points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 "Thy Naiad airs have brought me home\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 To the glory that was Greece,\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 And the grandeur that was Rome."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: To Helen\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15 points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 "Hast thou not torn the Naiad from her flood,\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 The Elfin from the green grass, and from me\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 The summer dream beneath the tamarind tree?"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Sonnet-- To Science\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  Answer the following questions about the Odyssey for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1. After Odysseus's men open the bag given to him by Aeolus and release the winds, the ship is driven away from Ithaca to the land of these giant cannibals of the far north.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Laestrygonians\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2. These utopian residents of the island of Scheria were ruled by King Alcinous and Queen Arete, and agreed to send Odysseus home to Ithaca in one of their extremely fast ships.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Phaeacians\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3. This Phaeacean princess found Odysseus after his shipwreck and leads him to her parents in the royal palace.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Nausicaa\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  Name the artist from works for 15 points each; you'll receive 5 points if you need an easier work.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 15:  Judith, The Coronation of the Virgin, Calumny\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 For 5:  Primavera, The Birth of Venus\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Sandro _BOTTICELLI_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 15:  The Madonna of the Chair, the Madonna of the Goldfinch, and the Alban Madonna\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 For 5:  The Disputation over the Sacrament, and Mt. Parnassus\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _RAPHAEL_ Sanzio or Santi\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7.  Identify the city, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 30:  Alexander the Great ordered that every building in this city be destroyed, with the exception of the house of the poet Pindar.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20:  Among the atrocities committed by members of its royal house was the execution of Queen Dirce at the hands of Zethus and Amphion, who tied her to the horns of a bull.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10:  Cadmus was the founder of this city; its later kings included Laius and Oedipus.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Thebes_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8.  Identify the following astronomers for the stated number of points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5 points:  He was elected to the Royal Society for his work in cataloguing the stars of the Southern Hemisphere from Saint Helena and attempted to calculate the age of the world by studying the salinity of the ocean, but is best known as the first }{\f21 to calculate the orbit of a comet.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Edmond _HALLEY_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10 points:  Originally a musician, his observations led to the cataloguing of 2500 nebulae and 848 binary stars, and in 1781 he discovered Uranus.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _WILLIAM HERSCHEL_ (prompt on Herschel)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15 points:  At the age of 27, he suggested to King Charles II that he\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 establish a royal observatory to plot the path of the moon.  He then became the first astronomer royal, and the old home of the head of the Greenwich Observatory is named for him.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  John _FLAMSTEED_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9.  Answer the following questions about Sikhism for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  What son of a revenue collector became the first Sikh guru and is generally considered the founder of the religion?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Guru _NANAK_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  The execution of several Gurus and persecution by the Mughals prompted the creation of this fraternity of class of soldier-saints, whose name means "the pure".\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _KHALSA_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This is the one canonical work of the Sikh religion, a series of hymns and writings compiled by the fifth guru, Arjun.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  the _ADI GRANTH_ (prompt on "Granth")\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10.  Answer the following questions about wars in which Prussia was involved in the decade prior to German unification for the stated number of points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For five points, this engagement was the only major battle of the Franco-Prussian War.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Sedan_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For ten points, the Prussians decisively won the Austro-Prussian War at this July 3, 1866 battle, where the use of the needle-gun helped bring about sudden victory.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Koeniggratz_ (or _Sadowa_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For fifteen points, Denmark's violation of this 1852 international agreement on the status of Schleswig and Holstein helped lead to war with Prussia in 1864.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: the _LONDON PROTOCOL_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11.  Answer the following questions about the work of the Harvard biologist E.O. Wilson on a 5-10-15 basis.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  Wilson's best known and most controversial works comes in this discipline, which provides the name of his 1975 book.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Sociobiology_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For ten:  Wilson and Bert Holldobler won a Pulitzer Prize for a study of this type of animal.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: the _ant_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For fifteen:  Wilson is also the co-developer of this theory, which attempts to relate the size and location of an island to its flora and fauna.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: the _theory of island biogeography_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12.  For ten points each, name the latest novel by each of the following American writers:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Thomas Pynchon\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Mason and Dixon_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Toni Morrison\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Paradise_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  John Updike\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Toward the End of Time_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13.  Identify the geologist, 15 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This eigteenth century Scottish geologist first studied as a lawyer, then as a doctor, before he turned to chemistry and farming.  In the 1760s, he returned to Edinburgh and began work in geology, publishing his theory of uniformitarianism -- stating t}{\f21 hat the world's geological processes have been operating in the same way throughout history-- in 1785, and publishing his masterwork, the two-volume Theory of Earth, in 1793.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  James _HUTTON_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  A lawyer and the son of a naturalist, he travelled throughout Europe and North America to make geological observations and published Principles of Geology and Elements of Geology.  His work generally won the acceptance of uniformitarianism, and was hel}{\f21 pful to the development of evolutionary theory; a friend of Darwin, he eventually came to accept natural selection tentatively.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Charles _LYELL_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  In early 1974, the clandestine publication of a major work of Russian literature in Paris prompted the Soviet Politburo to expel the author from the country.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  FTP, name the author and the work.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Aleksandr Isayevich _SOLZHENITSYN_, The _Gulag Archipelago_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For another ten points each , identify the multi-volume work intended by Solzhenitsyn to be his magnum opus and the statement of his vision of Soviet history, and any one of its four parts, all of whose titles are months and years.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: The _Red Wheel_; _August 1914_, _November 1916_, _March 1917_, or _April 1917_ (only one of these last four is needed)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15.  Given the work of German literature, identify the author for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Nathan der Weise\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Gotthold Ephraim _LESSING_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Die Raueber\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Johann Christian Friedrich _SCHILLER_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Deutschland, Ein Wintermaerchen\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Heinrich _HEINE_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16.  Identify the author from works, 30-20-10\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 30:  The Citizen of the World\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20:  The Deserted Village\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10:  The Vicar of Wakefield, She Stoops to Conquer\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Oliver _GOLDSMITH_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17.  Given the chemical formula, identify the amino acid FTPE:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  CH3-CH(NH2)-COOH\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _alanine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  NH2-CH2-COOH\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _glycine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  (CH3)2-CH-CH2-CH(NH2)-COOH\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _leucine_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18.  Answer the following questions about the book of Genesis FTPE:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This Egyptian handmaiden was the mother of Ishmael.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Hagar\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  He was Joseph's only full brother.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Benjamin (or Benoni)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This cave was purchased as a burying ground for Sarah.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Machpelah\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19.  Answer the following questions about Antarctica for the stated number of points:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5: This is the largest of Antarctica's ice shelves.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _ROSS_ Ice Shelf\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  This sea adjoins the Antarctic Peninsula and Coats Land and surrounds Berkner Island.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _WEDDELL_ Sea\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15: Ironically, this mountain chain just south of the Weddell Sea (containing Mount Hawkes) shares its name with a Florida city.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _PENSACOLA_ Mountains\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20.  Answer the questions about the architect Inigo Jones for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  After studying in Italy, Jones was hired as a court painted by what Danish king?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  CHRISTIAN IV\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Jones's best-known work was what government building, completed between 1619 and 1622?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  the _Banqueting House_, Whitehall (prompt if only "Whitehall" is given)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  What is Jones's only surviving royal building?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Queen's Chapel_ at St. James's Palace\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 21.  The former state of Gran Colombia covered the territories of four present-day nations, including (of course) Colombia.  For 5 points each, name the other three.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _VENEZUELA_, _ECUADOR_, _PANAMA_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 For another fifteen points, by what name was the union of Panama and Colombia known after the secession of Venezuela and Ecuador?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _NUEVA GRANADA_ (or _New Granada_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 22.  Given the former name of a nation, give its current name for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  The Gold Coast\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Ghana_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  The Seven Trucial States\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  The _U_nited _A_rab _E_mirates\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Dahomey\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Benin_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 23.  Identify the author from each work of magical realism, 5-10-15:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  100 Years of Solitude\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Gabriel _GARCIA MARQUEZ_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  The House of the Spirits\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Isabel _ALLENDE_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  The Famished Road\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Ben _OKRI_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 24. Name these Byzantine emperors for ten points apiece.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1. He drove the Persians from Antioch and recovered the relic the True Cross, but in 636 the Moslems defeated his army and took Syria.  To reconcile the Orthodox and Monophysite churches, he proposed the unpopular doctrine of Monothelitism which said that }{\f21 \cf5 Jesus was both divine and human, but that these two natures united as one will.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: _HERACLIUS_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2. He lost the battle of Manzikert in 1071 because his Frankish soldiers refused to fight and one of his Imperial armies fled the battlefield.  When he returned home to Constantinople, he was deposed and the new Emperor put out his eyes.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: _ROMANUS DIOGENES_ or _ROMANUS IV_ (Prompt on _DIOGENES_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3. He drove Robert Guiscard from the east, and in 1095, his appeal to Pope Urban II for soldiers to battle the Seljuk Turks prompted the First Crusade.  His daughter Anna wrote his biography which is the major primary source in Greek of the First Crusade.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: _ALEXIUS COMNENUS_ or _ALEXIUS I_ (Prompt on _COMNENUS_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 25.  Answer the following questions about tan April, 1861, diplomatic incident FTPE:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  During that month, the US initiated the crisis when they seized Confederate emissaries from a British mail ship.  FTP, name the ship.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: HMS _TRENT_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  The two seized emissaries were the CSA commissioners to France and Britain.  FTP, name either man.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: James _MASON_, John _SLIDELL_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  For a final ten points, name the US ship -- christened after an earlier\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 battle-- that confronted the Trent.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: USS _SAN JACINTO_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 26.  For 10 points apiece, name these traitors in Tudor England.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1. In 1551, he tried and executed his court rival, Edward Seymour, on false charges.  Two years later, he persuaded Edward VI to declare his daughter-in-law, Lady Jane Grey, the royal heir.  When Edward died, he ruled England through Jane for nine days unt}{\f21 \cf5 il Mary Tudor entered London and executed him.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: John Dudley, Duke of _NORTHUMBERLAND_ (Accept _J_ohn _DUDLEY_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2. When Mary I decided to wed Spains King Philip II in 1554, this Protestant led an uprising to place Mary's half sister Elizabeth on the throne.  He persuaded Mary's army to join him and camped outside London until Mary delivered a speech at Guildhall tha}{\f21 \cf5 t inspired Londoners to form a new army that put down his rebellion.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: Thomas _WYATT_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3. In 1600, a special court stripped him of his lands and imprisoned him, but Francis Bacon convinced Queen Elizabeth to restore his liberty.  A year later, he led an unsuccessful insurrection in London to force Elizabeth to dismiss his enemies from her co}{\f21 \cf5 urt; he was executed the next February.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of _ESSEX_ (Accept _R_obert _DEVEREUX_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 27.  Name these historic U.S. Supreme Court decisions FTPE:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  In this 1824 case, the court struck down a New York monopoly on steamboat operations granted to Robert Fulton and Robert Livingston.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _GIBBONS V. OGDEN_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  In this 1905 case, the court struck down a New York state law mandating maximum hours for bakers.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _LOCHNER V. NEW YORK_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  In this 1962 case, the court threw out a "non-denominational prayer" prepared by the New York Board of Regents for public schools, forbidding school prayer.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _ENGEL V VITALE_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 28.  Given the name of one or more moons, name the planet they orbit for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  For five: Deimos and Phobos\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: Mars\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  For ten: Nereid and Triton\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: Neptune\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  For fifteen:  Janus, Hyperion, and Tethys\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: Saturn}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 29.  Identify the following archaeologists associated with the Middle East for 10 points each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  The French consul in Mosul excavated the palace of the Assyrian king Sargon II near modern Khorsabad; the rumor spread that he had discovered Nineveh, leading to interest in further work.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Paul-Emile _BOTTA_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  This German schoolteacher bragged to his drinking buddies that he could decipher cuneiform, and made the breakthroughs in studying the Persian cuneiform script that enabled scholars to read Mesopotamian writing.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Georg Friedrich _GROTEFEND_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  This British consul at Baghdad independently translated the Persian inscriptions at Behistun, was a pioneer in deciphering Mesopotamian text, and provided numerous antiquities to the British museum.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  Henry Creswicke _RAWLINSON_\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}}