{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff4\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}{\f199\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f200\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f202\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f203\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f204\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f205\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f206\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext1 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext15 Default;}{\*\cs16 \additive \f7\fs18 Default SS;}{\s17\qc \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f4\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon15 \snext17 header;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext18 Body;}{\s19\qc \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext19 footer;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon15 \snext20 Footnote;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \up6 Footnote Index;}{\s22\qj \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext22 Body Text;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext23 Body Text 2;}{\s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext24 Plain Text;}}{\info{\author Matthew Weiner}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2000\mo7\dy23\hr21\min5}{\revtim\yr2000\mo7\dy23\hr21\min11}{\version3}{\edmins6}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords5844}{\nofchars33315}{\nofcharsws40913}
{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f5 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 Tossups by Vanderbilt for the 1998 ACF Regionals
\par }{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
1.  Its author specified three categories of novels which it included: Analytic Studies, Philoso
phical Studies, and Studies of Manners; and set them in six scenes: private, provincial, country, military, political, and Parisian life.  The Wild Ass's Skin, The Country Doctor, A Harlot High and Low, Eugenie Grandet, and Cousin Bette are among the abou
t 90 novels of which it consists.  FTP, what is this series of books, intended to comprehend the whole of contemporary society, by Honor\'8e de Balzac.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Answer: The _Human Comedy_ (Le Com\'8edie humaine)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
2.  They consist of two principal parts: the axis, or spine
like central structure; and the barb, or side branch of the stem.  All the barbs together form the vane or fringe.  The axis consists of the barb-bearing shaft and the hollow quill, which is rooted in a small sac of the skin.  They are similar in structur
e and origin to the scales of fish and reptiles.  FTP, name these objects, which serve as sex differentiators, protect from water and cold, and aid the flight of birds.
\par Answer: _feathers_
\par 
\par 3.  Although it first acquired government funding in the form of a N
IH grant in 1990, it had begun under private auspices several years before.  The majority of its findings are mere junk, yet its comparatively few useful successes still manage to cause quite a stir.  Although it has enjoyed some notable successes in the 
treatments of diseases, its primary purpose is as a research endeavor.  FTP, name this effort which has racked up a $3 billion bill in its half-decade of delving into the nature of DNA and the causes of hereditary diseases.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Answer:  _H_uman _G_enome _P_roject
\par 
\par 4.  He won a Presidential Medal of Freedom from Gerald Ford in 1977, but did not have much time to enjoy the honor, for he died the next year at the age of 84.  Born in New York City, this illustrator looked beyond the big city in which he lived to dra
w inspiration for his paintings, which focused upon nostalgic scenes of rural or small-town life.  FTP, name this American artist best known for the more than three hundred covers he painted for \'93The Saturday Evening Post.\'94
\par Answer:  _Rockwell_ , Norman
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 5.
  Its first known written occurrence is in an English poem called \'93Fleas, Flies, and Friars,\'94
 composed before 1500, which satirizes the Carmelite monks of Cambridge.  The word itself is in a simple code, showing its shock value even then.  The line that contains it says of the friars, \'93They are not in heaven because they BLANK wives of Ely.
\'94  FTP, name this infamous obscenity, meaning "to have sexual intercourse with."
\par Answer: _fuck_
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par 6.  He was born in London in 1633 and given the title of the Duke of Alba
ny a year later.  In 1657, he joined the Spanish service in war against England.  Three years later, he was made high admiral of the English navy, but resigned in another three years upon the Parliamentary passage of the Test Act.  Immediately after his r
e
signation, he married the Catholic Mary Beatrice of Modena.  Upon his ascension to the throne, he embarked upon a series of trials known as the Bloody Assizes.  FTP, name this English king who succeeded his brother Charles and was overthrown in 1688 by th
e Protestant William of Orange.
\par Answer:  _James II_
\par 
\par 7.  This African nation is the home to Dinder National Park and the Teiga Plateau.  The Jabal Marrah Mountains hold the peak of the same name, the tallest in this nation.  The Jibal An Nubah Terrace, the 
As Sudd flats, the Red Sea Hills, and the Nubian desert all stand out as geographic features of this nation.  FTP, name this large African nation more noteworthy for containing the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cataracts of the Nile River.

\par Answer:  _Sudan_
\par 
\par 8.  It can be black or invisible, depending upon your political or philosophical inclinations.   It can be a type of tool or the basis for a variety of communication.  If it is \'93Learned\'94 it can be a prominent American jurist, but it only 
really appears in primates.  FTP, identify this anatomical feature of twenty-seven bones subdivided into carpals, metacarpals, and phalanges.
\par Answer:  _hand_
\par 
\par 9.  The theoretical principles for this technology were laid out in 1947, but no working prototyp
e was tested until 1960 because critical technology did not yet exist.  Because of a property often exploited in such consumer products as baseball cards, this technology has the potential for use in extremely high capacity digital storage. Scientifically
, this technology has made the use of inferometers far more precise.   FTP, name this laser-dependant invention for which Dennis Gabor won the 1971 Nobel Prize in Physics.
\par Answer: _holography_ (accept: _hologram_s)
\par 
\par 10.  She gained her college degree from the University of Nebraska but soon after moved to New York City to take the editor\rquote s position at McClure\rquote s magazine.  Several trips to the Southwest provided fodder for such tales as the short story 
\'93The Enchanted Bluff\'94 and the novels \'93The Song of the Lark\'94 and \'93The Professor\rquote s House.\'94
  Although her Southwestern experiences were an important foray into regionalism, she is more famous for her regionalist fiction describing the Midwestern pioneer experience.  FTP, identify the author of the novels \'93One of Ours,\'94 \'93Lost Lady,\'94
 and \'93O Pioneers!\'94
\par Answer: _Cather_ , Willa Sibert
\par 
\par 11.  The first began operation in 1863 in London under steam power.  In three years, it was significantly expanded and converted to electricity, but during that time Budapest became the f
irst European city to possess a fully electric system.  The first opened in the United States in Boston in 1897, and it was followed in seven years by New York\rquote 
s nine-mile system.  Since then, the fledgling system has expanded to several hundred miles and is the largest in the world.  FTP, identify this underground transportation innovation which shares the name of a nationwide hoagie chain.
\par Answer: _subway_
\par 
\par 12.  This common sugar is dextrorotary \'d0 that is, it rotates a plane of polarized light to the right.  Formed by the action of the enzyme diastase on starch, this substance is water-soluble and crystallizes in fine needles.  It hydrolyzes into glucose 
\'d0 a process whose ease accounts for the sugar\rquote s easy digestion.  FTP, name the sugar whose digestibility is exploited by such products as infant food, beer, and milkshakes.
\par Answer: _maltose_
\par 
\par 13.  Its early period saw this religion without a fixed dogma, sacred writings, moral precepts, or even a name.  Practitioners merely professed faith in and worshipped a vast pantheon of divinities known as \'93kami\'94
 that personified aspects of the natural world.  As time passed, the rites of thanksgiving, purification, and offerings to ancestors became written down and codified.  As centuries passed, it split into two distinct variations \'d0
 State and Secular.  FTP, identify the official religion of Japan until the end of World War Two.
\par Answer: _Shinto_
\par 
\par 14.  Found in the brains of sheep that had died of scrapie, this tiny particle has become the focus of much speculation as the potential contagion in this summer\rquote 
s British bovine spongiform encephalopathy.  Their discoverer, American neurologist Stanley B. Prusiner, has speculated that they have a pivotal role in the formation of the plaque characteristic of such degenerative
 brain diseases as scrapie.  FTP, name this minute particle consisting solely of protein.
\par Answer: _prion_
\par 
\par 15.  Founded in the eleventh century by Ionian Greeks, this Aetolian city had a long and gloried past of losing in conflicts.  The hometown of Heracl
itus, it was the endpoint of the Roman Arcadian Way, but it is more famous for its role as a religious center.  It held the third general council of the Christian Church, notable for its condemnation of the Nestorian heresy.  FTP, identify this city most 
well know as the site of one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, the grand temple to Artemis.
\par Answer: _Ephesus_ (accept: _Arsinoe_)
\par 
\par 16.  This American lyric poet was born in Garrettsville, Indiana in 1899.  His first poetry collection, \'93White Buildings,\'94
 established him a solid reputation among literary critics.  He received a Guggenheim fellowship in 1931 and went to Mexico to write.  Although he use the trip to pen the striking poem \'93The Broken Tower\'94, he managed to drink himself to nea
r insanity.  On the boat ride back to New York City, he leapt overboard and drowned.  FTP, name this poet best known for his 1930 Brooklynite epic \'93The Bridge.\'94
\par Answer: _Crane_ , Hart (Harold)
\par 
\par 17.  In 55 minutes of heavy fighting, the British Navy was able to trap enemy ships in a \'93V\'94
-shaped pinscher between Admiral John Jellicoe and Vice Admiral David Beatty.  The British forces under Jellicoe lost nearly six times the number of men and four more ships as their opponents, but succeeded in securing victory
 nonetheless. The Allied success at this battle convinced German military commanders of the impenetrability of the Allied blockade of the North Sea.  FTP, identify this 1916 naval battle off the coast of Denmark.
\par Answer: battle of _Jutland_
\par 
\par 18.  Founded in Two Harbors, Minnesota in 1902, it quickly burgeoned into a national business force.  It did not turn a profit until 1916, but it learned well from its initial losses.  During the Great Depression, it tripled in size \'d0
 an occurrence not matched by any ot
her major corporations.   During the Depression, it also acquired its labor-friendly reputation when it became the first major U.S. company to offer its workers a pension plan.  FTP, identify this St. Paul-based corporation notable for the products it has
 introduced such as waterproof sandpaper, masking tape, videotape, Scotch tape, and the Post-It note.
\par Answer: _3M_ (_Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing_)
\par 
\par 19.  This American landmark began its existence as nearly three hundred miles of buffalo trails and Na
tive American paths.  Initially explored in 1750 by Thomas Walker, Daniel Boone was the first pioneer to traverse its full length.  In 1780, Boone and thirty axemen were employed by the Transylvania Company to cut the first few miles of what would become 
a Midwestern icon.  FTP, identify this trail, also known as Boone\rquote s trace, the route of passage for some 200,000 settlers in Tennessee and Kentucky.
\par Answer: _Wilderness Road_
\par 
\par 20.  Originally not significantly different than the language it was derived from, it has gradually grown apart from its roots.  Though some changes have been phonetic (for example, the change of the \'93sch\'94 sound to \'93sk\'94
), a more significant change has been the elimination of verb tenses.  Up until the nineteenth century, it was only a 
spoken language, but it became an official written language in 1925. FTP, name this language which added elements of English, German, French, and African languages to its Dutch base.
\par Answer:  _Afrikaans_
\par 
\par 21.  Legends concerning their origin are many, but 
the most likely explanation for their existence is that they were an indigenous populace conquered and enslaved by later arrivals to the area.  Slaves captured in times of war provided new blood, which kept their genetic pool relatively diverse.  No matte
r how they arrived, they occupied the lowest rung of the social totem pole.  FTP, identify the serfs who were the lowest class in the Spartan polis.
\par Answer:  _helot_
\par 
\par 22.  This school of though is generally considered to have been founded by the nineteenth 
century French philosopher Pierre Joseph Proudhon.  The philosophic branch is more concerned with individual liberties, but Mikhail Bakunin led the more radical, political branch that stormed out of the First International.  Often linked to syndicalism, t
his movement\rquote s most prominent American proponents were Alexander Berkman and Emma Goldman.  FTP, identify the political movement which advocated the deconstruction of all governmental structure.
\par Answer: _anarchism_
\par 
\par 23.  They were inspired by the creation o
f a man known only as Mr. Dunnett, but Englishman Edward Craven Walker spent fifteen years perfecting and marketing this contraption.  Initially a flop, it was regarded by merchants as ugly and disgusting.  Consumers did not agree, and over eight million 
were sold in the next decade.  FTP, name this psychedelic fad composed of two \'93secret formulas\'94 and mesmerizing enough to be considered in some corners a replacement for drugs.
\par Answer: _lava lamp_
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
24.  Bruce Bethke originally coined the term as the title o
f a story in 1982.  Other authors who have used it include Rudy Rucker, John Shirley, and Bruce Sterling.  Some works of this type of literature are _Count Zero_ , _Mona Lisa Overdrive_ , _Virtual Light_ , _Burning Chrome_ , "Johnny Mnemonic," and _Neurom
ancer_ , all by William Gibson.  FTP, name this subset of science fiction featuring antiheroes trapped in a dehumanized, high-tech future.
\par Answer: _cyberpunk_
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par 25.  This famous German lived in Weimar and was an avid scientist, studying, among other topics, plant biology and optics.  This novelist, playwright, and poet began his writing career stressing the emotional states of his protagonists in such plays as 
\'93Gotz Von Berlichingen\'94 and \'93Stella.\'94  A trip to Italy shifted his artistic outlook toward the restraint that he saw in classical Italian art, resulting in such plays as \'93Torquanto Tasso\'94 and \'93Iphigenia at Aulis.\'94
  Towards the end of his life, the trend reversed itself somewhat when he published the more romantic works \'93The West-Eastern Divan\'94 and the epic \'93Reineke Fuchs.\'94  FTP, identify the man most famous for his poem \'93Prometheus\'94
, the short story \'93The Sorrows of Young Werther,\'94 and the play \'93Faust.\'94
\par Answer:  _Goethe_ , Johann Wolfgang von
\par 
\par 26.  He fixed upon the Stoic idea that the results of all actions, no matter what they appear to do, are for the good.  Amplifying this philosophical starting point, he expanded the idea to encompass a thoroughly predeterm
ined universe.  He explained this divine order of the universe in the book he completed only two years before his death.  The book\rquote s title, \'93Monadologie,\'94
 gave its name to the philosophical concept he is most famous for.  FTP, identify the man perhaps better known for his contributions to integral calculus and as the butt of a famous parody by Voltaire.
\par Answer:  _Leibnitz_ , Baron Gottfried Wihelm von
\par 
\par 27.  The contradiction between the sedate middle class life that he lived and the art that he produced was
 most notable in his attire.  Never seen in public without his small black bowler hat, this painter used the very same accessory to portray the mundane life of the European middle classes.  Born in Lessines in 1881, this painter is famous for pioneering t
he artistic style known as \'93magic realism\'94 later adopted by George Grosz, but is more widely known as a surrealist.  FTP, name the artist of \'93Son of Man\'94, \'93The Fall\'94, and \'93Madame Recamier de David\'94
 known to some quiz-bowlers only as \'93that Belgian surrealist.\'94
\par Answer:  _Magritte_ , Rene Francois Ghislain
\par 
\par 28.  Born in 1906 in St. Petersburg, Russia, he attended the Leningrad Conservatory.  His sophisticated, modern style won only censure from the government.  He won favor with his fifth symphony, only to lose
 it again periodically until 1953.  His ballets include \'93The Bolt,\'94 \'93Limpid Stream,\'94 and \'93The Golden Age,\'94 the last of which contains perhaps his most famous song, \'93Polka.\'94
  FTP, identify this Russian composer who fell in and out of favor with Stalin due such works as the opera \'93Lady Macbeth of Minsk.\'94
\par Answer: _Shostakovich_ , Dimitri
\par 
\par 29.  Although their existence was first proven conclusively in 1994, they were first postulated in 1916.  Astronomers working with the Hubble Space Telescope measured the acc
eleration of gases around the center of the galaxy M 87 and found that an object of 2.5 billion to 3.5 billion solar masses must be present.  In 1995, the VBLA array of radio telescopes discovered another at the center of galaxy NCG 4258.   Although many 
of the smaller primordial ones have already dissipated, new ones will form from any star of greater than 1.7 solar masses.  FTP, name this astronomical anomaly first postulated by the German scientist Karl Schwarzschild.
\par Answer: _black hole_
\par 
\par 30.  Identify 
the common surname: Frank and his sister Margaret were prominent poster painters of the Art Nouveau movement; Jock was among the first of the Canadian abstract artists; James Edward was an English-Canadian Impressionistic landscapist; James Ramsay was Eng
land\rquote s first Labour Prime Minister; and Sir John Alexander was the first Canadian Prime Minister.  FTP, identify this common Scottish last name of fast food\rquote s \'93Ronald\'94.
\par Answer: _MacDonald_
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \page }{
\b0\fs36 Bonuses by Vanderbilt for the 1998 ACF Regionals}{\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
1.  FTP each, identify the following about some rather obscure events of 1776.
\par 1.  This Russian adviser to Catherine the Great built the Black Sea fleet in 1776.
\par Answer: Grigory _Pot\lquote mkin_
\par 2.  This man's construction of the "Connecticut Turtle" for use against the British pioneers the use of the submarine in warfare.
\par }{\fs20 \tab }{\fs20 Answer: David _Bushnell_
\par 3.  Five men at the College of William and Mary founded this organization.
\par Answer: _Phi Beta Kappa_ Society
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
2.  Identify the Japanese politicians for 10 points apiece.\tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
1.  The prime minister during much of the Japanese war effort during the Second World War, and it was his decision as minister of War to attack Pearl Harbor.  He was executed for war crimes on December 23, 1948.
\par Answer: _Tojo_ Hideki
\par 2. He is the curren
t prime minister of Japan, a position that is a natural step up from his prominent role at his previous post as head of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry.  His two-year standoff with American trade officials gained him national attention th
at he parlayed into a joint government consisting of the Liberal Democratic Party and the Social Democratic Party.
\par Answer: _Hashimoto_ Ryutaro
\par 3. He is the current head of Japan\rquote s main opposition party, the New Frontier Party.  A prot\'8eg\'8e of former Prime Min
ister Tanaka Kakeui, he split from the LDP in 1993.  His withdrawal from the LDP with 54 followers led to the no-confidence vote that toppled Prime Minister Miyazama Kiichi in June of 1993.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 Answer: _Ozawa_ Ichiro

\par 
\par 3.  On a 5-10-15 point basis, identify these minorities around the world.
\par 1.  For five points, this caste occupied the lowest position on the Hindu social scale.  Through the attempts of Mohandas Gandhi and subsequent campaigners for religious tolerance, they now have the same legal rights as other Indians.
\par Answer: _Harijan_ (accept: Untouchables)
\par 2.  For ten points, this Christian group adheres to the Monophysite doctrine.  Although this religious sect has branches in many Eastern nations, it holds the maj
ority of its membership around the south and east coasts of the Mediterranean Sea, particularly in the nation with which it is most closely associated.
\par Answer:  _Copts_
\par 3.  For fifteen points, this Japanese outcast group stems from origins in Buddhist philosophy.  When Buddhism swept through Japan, people with \'93unclean\'94 jobs, such as tanners, were segregated and discriminated against.
\par Answer:  _Burakumin_ accept: yakuzu
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par 4.  FTP, given a summary of the "story" of the following pieces of romantic program music, name the pieces, or name them for 5 given the composer.
\par 1.  10 points: This work depicts a person walking around and looking at the art of deceased painter Viktor Hartmann.
\par }{\fs20 \tab }{\fs20 5 points: Modest Mussorgsky
\par Answer: _Pictures at an Exhibition_
\par 2.  10 points: This work describes skeletons dancing around a graveyard until a rooster crows at dawn and they dive back into their graves.
\par }{\fs20 \tab }{\fs20 5 points: Camille Saint-Sa\lquote ns
\par Answer: _Danse Macabre_
\par 3.  10 points: This piece follows a river from its source to Prague, passing a hunting party, a farmer's wedding, and a meeting of nymphs on the way.
\par 5 points: Bedrich Smetana
\par Answer: The _Moldau_
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
\par 5.  Identify the following saints of the early church for ten points apiece.
\par 1: She was married to the Roman emperor Constantius I, and was the mother of Constantine the Great
, emperor of Rome.  She founded the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and the Church of the Nativity in Jerusalem and was purported to have discovered the cross upon which Jesus was crucified.
\par Answer: St. _Helena_
\par }\pard\plain \s23\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 2:
 This fourth century virgin martyr was reputed to have refused marriage due to her religious conviction.  As punishment, she was sentenced to work as a prostitute in Rome.  The first man to touch her was immediately struck blind, but regained his sight as
 a result of her prayers.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 Answer: St. _Agnes_
\par }\pard\plain \s23\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
3: A key figure in the introduction of Aristotelian thought into the Roman Catholic Church, he was recognized in 1931 as an official Doctor of the church.  Despite his own impressive influence, this man is best known as the tutor of St. Thomas Aquinas.

\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 Answer: _Albertus Magnus_

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
6.  [Handouts of two paintings]  You have been given two paintings by Jacques Louis David.  Answer the following, for the stated number of points:
\par 1.  For 5 points each, what are the titles of the two paintings?
\par Answer:  _The Death of Socrates_ and _The Oath of the Horatii_
\par 2.  The story of the Horatii, three Roman brothers who fight the three Sabine brothers Curatii, is told by what Roman historian in his \'93Ab Urbe Condita\'94?
\par Answer:  Titus _Livius_ Secundus or _Livy_
\par 3.  The figure sitting at the foot of the bed in \'93The Death of Socrates\'94 has his head bowed, perhaps because he knows he will have to pay a cock to Asclepius later.  Who was this wealthy friend of Socrates?
\par Answer:  _Crito_
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
\par 7.  On a 5-10-15 basis, answer these questions relating to the Cold Springs Harbor Genetics Research Laboratory of Quantitative Biology.
\par 1.  For five points, name the man made director of the laboratory in 1968. He was also the first director of the Human Genome Project and a co-discoverer of DNA.
\par Answer:  _Watson_ , James
\par 2.  For ten points, name the organization founded by a Scottish-American philanthropist that is the parent corporation of the Cold Springs Harbor Genetics Research Unit.
\par Answer:  _Carnegie Institute_
\par 3.  For a final fifteen points, he directed the unit\rquote s research activities from 1962-1968.  He is most famous for winning the 1969 Nobel Prize in physiology for his work on the replication of bacteriophage viruses and his collaboration on the \'93b
lender experiment\'94 with fellow American Martha Chase.
\par Answer: _Hershey_ , Alfred Day
\par 
\par 8.  Identify the following American regionalist authors on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 1.  For five points, his stories for William Randolph Hearst\rquote s \'93Sunday Examiner\'94 made him famous in life, but his strange disappearance in Mexico has earned him everlasting notoriety.
\par Answer: _Bierce_ , Ambrose Gwinett (\'93Bitter\'94)
\par 2.  For ten points, she described life in the fading, tattered towns of New England in such works as \'93The Tory Lover,\'94 \'93Deephaven,\'94 and her best work, \'93The Country of the Pointed Firs.\'94
\par Answer: _Jewett_ , Sarah Orne
\par 3.  For fifteen points, his tales of the Louisiana bayou made him an exceptional practitioner of the \'93local color\'94 style of writing.  In such books as \'93Old Creole Days\'94 and \'93The Silent South,\'94
 he not only provided an accurate description of Louisiana life but also called for action against the horrors of slavery.
\par Answer: _Cable_ , George Washington
\par 
\par 9.  Identify the following muckraking journalists on a five-ten-fifteen point basis.
\par 1.  For five, he was a Socialist gubernatorial candidate in California but better remembered for his books starring secret agent Lanny Bud and his landmark study of the meatpacking industry, \'93The Jungle.\'94
\par Answer: _Sinclair_ , Upton
\par 2.  For ten, he is noted for his autobiographical \'93The Making of an American,\'94 but is better known as the photographic and journalistic chronicler of the misery of the American immigrant.  This was the theme of his most enduring book, \'93How the O
ther Half Lives,\'94 which spurred immediate reforms in New York state.
\par Answer: _Riis_ , Jacob
\par 3.  For fifteen, he edited the New York Sun during Riis\rquote  tenure as reporter and worked on the staff at McClure\rquote s Magazine, revealing abhorrent practices in the patent-medicine industry.  His later novel \'93Revelry\'94
 deals with the abuses and scandals of the Warren Harding era.
\par Answer: _Adams_ , Samuel Hopkins
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
10.  Give the name of the following ships from the American Civil War for ten points apiece.
\par 1.  This Southern submarine was the first such craft to sink a Union warship.
\par Answer: CSS _Hunley_
\par 2.  This Southern battle cruiser was built and harbored in Birkenhead, England.  It was sunk off the port of Cherbourg, France on June 19th, 1864 after destroying over sixty Union vessels.
\par Answer: CSS _Alabama_
\par 3.  For your final ten points, name the Union vessel that ended the reign of terror wrought by the _Alabama_.
\par Answer: USS _Kearsarge_
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
\par 11.  Answer the following questions about the periodic table on a 5-10-15 point basis.
\par For five points, give the chemical name for the element with atomic number 68 and symbol Er.
\par Answer: _Erbium_
\par For ten points, identify the Swedish village near Vaxholm that this and several other elements are named after.
\par Answer: _Ytterby_
\par For fifteen points, give the name of the Swedish chemist who also discovered terbium, yttrium, and lanthanum and named all but lanthanum after his hometown of Ytterby.
\par Answer: _Mosander_ , Carl Gustav
\par 
\par 12.  Identify these members of the mythic cannibalistic Greek dynastic house of Atreus on a 5-10-15 point basis.
\par For five points, he was the patriarch of the house named after his grandson Atreus.  This legendary king is renowned for servi
ng his son Pelops at a banquet for the gods.  As punishment for this transgression, he was forced to stand by a pool of water that receded from his cupped hands and a bough of fruit which retracted from his outstretched arms.
\par Answer: _Tantalus_
\par For ten points, he was the brother of Atreus and uncle of Agamemnon and Menelaus.  His relationship with his brother deteriorated over the course of their lives, but reached abyssal new lows when Atreus served his sons to him at a banquet.
\par Answer: _Thyestes_
\par For fifteen points, he was Thyestes\rquote  son.  It is a distinct possibility that his most famous action was not merely an act of jealous rage but in fact in retribution for Atreus\rquote 
 murders.  Name this cousin and murderer of Agamemnon and the second husband of Clytemnestra.
\par Answer: _Aegisthus_
\par 
\par 13.  Identify the American politician on a 30-20-10 basis:
\par 30: He was born in Brookline, Massachusetts in 1925.  After undergraduate studies were at Yale, he took several years off to serve in the Navy in World War II, and returned to earn an MBA at Harvard and a LLB at the University of Virginia.
\par 20: He first gained national prominence as chief counsel (1955-57) of the Senate Permanent Investigations Subcommittee in its investigation of Teamster Union executives David Beck and Ja
mes Hoffa, a performance which led to his most famous political appointment.
\par 10: His brother Edward delivered his eulogy after he was assassinated at a campaign rally by Sirhan Bishara Sirhan.
\par Answer: _Kennedy_ , Robert Francis
\par 
\par 14.  Canals have long been an important means of transportation and commerce.  Identify the following prominent canals for ten points apiece.
\par 1: At 1782 km in length, it connected Beijing and Hangzhou. Begun in the 5}{\f4\fs20\up6 th}{\f4\fs20  century BC, it is still in use today. The oldest sections connected the Yellow and Chang Jiang rivers, while additions in the 13}{\f4\fs20\up6 th}{
\f4\fs20  century AD added a connection to Beijing.
\par Answer: _Grand_ Canal (China)
\par 2: Built under the governorship of DeWitt Clinton, this canal connects Buffalo to Albany, New York.  The first boat to traverse its length was the \'93Seneca Chief,\'94
 and in the following celebration a large barrel of water from the Great Lakes was dumped into the Atlantic.
\par Answer: _Erie_ Canal
\par }\pard\plain \s23\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
3: This canal is the main thoroughfare of the Italian city of Venice.  About 300 yards wide and two miles long, the 16th century Rialto Bridge crosses it in the center of the city.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
Answer: _Grand_ Canal (Italy)
\par 
\par 15.  Answer the following questions about the famous Norwegian explorer Thor Heyerdal for ten points apiece.
\par 1: Name the balsa raft upon which Heyerdal and several compatriots sailed from Callo, Peru to the Tuamotu Archipelago in the Philippines.  His most famous book also bears this name.
\par Answer: _Kon-Tiki_
\par 2. Name the papyrus boat in which Heyerdal successfully reenacted the supposed Egyptian migration across the Atlantic.  He was attempting to prove that Egyptians could well have founded the Aztec and Incan cultures in America \'d0
 a convenient explanation of American steppe pyramids.
\par Answer: _Ra II_ (do not accept \'93Ra\'94)
\par 3. Name the boat of the abortive Heyerdal mission to go from Sumer to the Indian Ocean.  This attempted reenactment of a potential migration rout was aborted when fighting in Ethiopia prevented his safe passage across the Red Sea.
\par Answer: _Tigris_
\par 
\par 16.  Answer the following questions about astronomers and their conflict with the Roman Catholic Church on a 5-10-15 point basis.
\par 1.  For five, identify the Italian astronomer famous for muttering \'93but it does move\'94 after recanting his heretical astronomical assumptions at the behest of Cardinal Robert Bellarmine.
\par Answer: _Galileo_ Galilei
\par 2.  For ten, identify the German cardinal born in 1401.  He encountered hassles from papal authorities for his assertion that church councils held more power 
than did the Pope.  Scientifically, he suggested the calendar reform later implemented by Gregory VII and anticipated Copernicus\rquote  theory of the Earth\rquote s rotation by nearly a century.
\par Answer: _Nicholas_ of Cusa
\par 3.  For fifteen points, he was a Dominican fria
r who was close friends with the English poet Sir Philip Sydney.  He was a prominent poet, but his scientific book On the Infinite Universe and Worlds attracted unwanted attention from the Church.  He refused to recant his heretical beliefs and was burned
 at the stake at Campo dei Fiori in 1600.
\par Answer: _Bruno_ , Giordano
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par 17.  Identify the English author on a 30-20-10 basis.
\par 30: Born in Dorsetshire in 1840, his father was a stonemason who specialized in rebuilding decaying churches.  Initially a poet, he turned to writing novels to provide a steady source of income for his first wife, Emma Gifford.
\par 20: His lesser known works include \'93The Woodlanders,\'94 \'93Life\rquote s Little Ironies,\'94 and \'93Wessex Tales.\'94  His first novel to be published was the 1871 \'93Desperate Remedies.\'94
\par 10: He abandoned the novel at the apogee of his career because of pressure from censors, turning back to poetry in such collections as \'93Wessex Poems,\'94 \'93Moments of Vision,\'94 and \'93Winter Words.\'94
\par Answer: _Hardy_ , Thomas
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
18.  Name the following blood vessels for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  5 points: This vessel returns blood from the trunk and legs to the heart.
\par Answer: _inferior vena cava_ (or posterior vena cava or postcaval vein)
\par 2.  10 points: These two arteries branch from the aorta and encircle the organ that they provide with blood.  The blood that goes through them is eventually passed back into the right auricle without entering the vena cava.
\par Answer: _coronary_ arteries
\par 3.  15 points: In general this means any vein which collects blood from a capillary system and distributes it to another.  It is specifically applied to a vein that collects blood from the intestine and carries it to the liver.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Answer: _portal_ vein
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
19.  Identify the following authors of Arthurian works from a description FTP each.
\par 1.  This 15th century English knight was apparently serving a prison sentence for rape when he began his work, the first account of the Arthurian legend written in modern English prose.
\par Answer: Sir Thomas _Malory_
\par 2.  This French poet wrote five Arthurian romances, and introduced the Holy Grail and Lancelot's affair with Guenever into the Arthurian myth.
\par Answer: _Chretien_ de Troyes
\par 3.  This poet wrote three long, blank-verse poems based on King Arthur stories: _Merlin_, _Lancelot_, and _Tristram_, which won a Pulitzer Prize.
\par Answer: Edwin Arlington _Robinson_
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
20.  FTP, given a summary of the "story" of the following pieces of romantic program music, name the pieces, or name them for 5 given the composer.
\par 1.  10 points: This work depicts a person walking around and looking at the art of deceased painter Viktor Hartmann.
\par       5 points: Modest Mussorgsky
\par Answer: _Pictures at an Exhibition_
\par 2.  10 points: This work describes skeletons dancing around a graveyard until a rooster crows at dawn and they dive back into their graves.
\par       5 points: Camille Saint-Sa\lquote ns
\par Answer: _Danse Macabre_
\par 3.  10 points: This piece follows a river from its source to Prague, passing a hunting party, a farmer's wedding, and a meeting of nymphs on the way.
\par       5 points: Bedrich Smetana
\par Answer: The _Moldau_
\par 
\par 21.  FTP each, given some inventions, name the scientist responsible for all of them.
\par 1.  The ice calorimeter, the zinc-carbon electric cell, and the spectroscope.
\par Answer: Robert _Bunsen_
\par 2.  Cordite (a smokeless gunpowder), and the first vacuum bottle.
\par Answer: Sir James _Dewar_
\par 3.  An improved hygrometer, and the first thermometer to use mercury rather than alcohol.
\par Answer: Gabriel _Fahrenheit_
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
22.  FTP each, identify the World War I battle sites which were home to multiple battles.
\par 1.  The second of these battles in northern France is regarded as the turning point of the war.  It also saw the first decisive victory by American troops.
\par Answer: Battles of the _Marne_
\par 2.  The second of these three battles near a Belgian town in west Flanders was notable for the Germans' first use of chlorine gas.
\par Answer: Battles of _Ypres_
\par 3.  The first of these battles on another river in northern France was an offensive planned jointly by Joffre and Haig and resulted in 615,000 Allied and 500,000 German casualties.
\par Answer: Battles of the _Somme_
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
23.  There are many famous Germanic playwrights, but they tend to blur together \'d0 probably because of the similarity of many of their names.  Identify these Germanic authors whose names all begin with the letter \'93H\'94 on a 5-10-15 basis.
\par 1.  For five points, which playwright born in 1862 wrote \'93Drayman Henschel,\'94 \'93Pippa Dances!,\'94 and several plays based on Greek mythology, including \'93The Tetralogy of the Atrids.\'94  This playwright wrote the epic \'93Till Eulenspiegel\'94
 and won the 1912 Nobel Prize in literature.
\par Answer:   _Hauptmann_ , Gerhart
\par 2.  For ten points, this poet and playwright was actually born in Austria, but is best known for his association with the literary branch of the Impressionistic movement that he cultivated after moving to Germany.  His most n
otable literary efforts include a modernization of the morality play \'93Everyman,\'94 \'93The Small-World Theater,\'94 and several operatic collaborations with Richard Strauss.
\par Answer:  _Hofmannsthal_ , Hugo von
\par 3.  For fifteen points, this dramatist was born the son of a stonemason.  He used a brutally realistic style to portray the Biblical murderess in his play Judith, middle-class problems in \'93Maria Magdalena,\'94 and the Judean king in \'93
Herod and Mariamne.\'94  He is perhaps best known for his ambitious trilogy based on the \'93Nibelungenlied.\'94
\par Answer:  _Hebbel_ , (Christian) Friedrich
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
24.  For ten points each, identify the following artists associated with the Barbizon school, a French artistic movement centered in the forests of Fontainebleau that sought to revive the mastery of the 17th century Flemish landscapists.
\par 1.  Probably the best known Barbizon, this Frenchman was the artist who held least true to the school\rquote s emphasis upon the beauty of the land.  Instead, he preferred to use the landscape as a setting upon whi
ch he sought to portray the nobility and simplicity of the peasant life.
\par Answer:  _Millet_ , Jean-Fran\u141\'8dois
\par 2.  This painter, like Millet, was not entirely comfortable within the confines of the Barbizon aesthetic model.  He felt a greater affinity towards 
the Neoclassicism of the Academie Francaise, and thus his paintings are more balanced, harmonized, and idealized than the Barbizon ideal.
\par Answer:  _Corot_ , Jean Baptiste Camille
\par 3.  This painter applied the Barbizon emphasis upon the land to her love of animals.  In such works as \'93Plowing in the Nivernais\'94
, her animal portraits blended the classicism demanded by the Academy into the Barbizon aesthetic.  Her works were held in such high favor and were so often commissioned by the government that she became the first female member of the Legion of Honor.

\par Answer:  _Bonheur_ , Rosa
\par 
\par 25.  Identify the famous industrial inventors for ten points apiece.  Each has made a significant contribution to the production of basic materials needed for the modern industrial society.
\par 1: This German chemist won the 1918 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his discovery of a cheap method of direct synthesis of ammonia.  This process now shares its name with the first man to take commercial advantage of it, the German Karl Bosch. 
\par Answer: _Haber_ , Fritz
\par 2: This English-American discovered the inexpensive process of blowing air onto molten metals to produce high-grade steel.  The furnace in which this process takes place is now named after him.
\par Answer: _Bessemer_ , Henry
\par 3: This American discovered the first cost-efficient way of producing aluminum in 1886.  Working independently, the Frenchman Charles Heroult made the discovery in the same year \'d0
 another link in the lives of two men who were born and died on the same years in 1863 and 1914.
\par Answer: _Hall_ , Charles Martin
\par 
\par 26.  Answer the following questions about the art of sculpting.  Each question describes a method of sculpting, and you must identify it for 10 points apiece.
\par 1: This ancient technique involves painstakingly cutting unwanted portions of a larger block of material.  Statues such as Michelangelo\rquote s \'93David\'94 were sculpted in this manner.
\par Answer: _carving_
\par }\pard\plain \s23\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
2: Similarly ancient, this method involves adding material to build up the wanted feature of the sculpture.  This technique is often used with more pliable substances such as clay.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 Answer: _modeling_
\par 3: This method is an effective way to create a permanent replica of a molding.  It involves either using wax (cire perdue) or liquefied sand to surround and repea
t the features of the original molding, known as the negative replica.  Molten metal is poured into this template to create a positive replica.
\par Answer: _casting_
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par 27.  For the stated number of points, given a mountain range, name the tallest mountain in that range.\tab 
\par 1.  5 points: The Caucasus Mountains
\par Answer: Mount _Elbrus_
\par 2.  10 points: The Alps
\par Answer: Mont _Blanc_
\par 3.  15 points: The Great Dividing Range
\par Answer: Mount _Kosciusko_
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
28.  Identify the following 20th century poems from quotes FTP or from the author for 5.
\par 1.  10 points: "My friend, you would not tell with such high zest/To children ardent for some desperate glory,/The old Lie:"
\par 5 points: Wilfred Owen
\par Answer: _Dulce Et Decorum Est_
\par 2.  10 points: "The whiskey on your breath/Could make a small boy dizzy;"
\par       5 points: Theodore Roethke
\par Answer: _My Papa's Waltz_
\par 3.  10 points: "I've bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young./I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep."
\par       5 points: Langston Hughes
\par Answer: _The Negro Speaks of Rivers_
\par }\pard\plain \s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par 29.  Identify the following terms relating to physics, all of which begin with the letter \'93a,\'94 for ten points apiece.
\par 1.  Theorized to exist, these particles were suggested to explain photographic emulsions of nuclear particles exhibiting unexpected tracks.  The particles\rquote  their name to reflects this odd behavior.
\par Answer: _anomalon_
\par 2.  Dwight D. Eisenhower began this organization in 1953, and its first conference was convened by Niels Bohr two years later.  The motivation for this group\rquote s actions was the devastation the uranium bomb caused to Hiroshima.
\par Answer: _Atoms for Peace_
\par 3.  Name the colorful astrophysical phenomenon caused when solar winds overload the Van Allen Belt.
\par Answer: _aurora_
\par }\pard\plain \s24\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\fs20 
30.  Identify the following composer on a 30-20-10 basis:
\par 30:  Some of his orchestral compositions include \'93Overture to Coriolanus,\'94 \'93Overture to the Consecration of the House,\'94 and \'93Overture to K\'9anig Stephan.\'94
\par 20:  More famous orchestral compositions include his \'93Overture to Leonora\'94 and his \'93Overture to Egmont,\'94
 based upon a Goethe drama of the same name in which an embattled hero fights against the tyranny all around him.  One of his most prominent ballets is \'93The Creatures of Prometheus.\'94
\par 10:  He wrote the Piano Concerto No.5 known as the \'93Emperor\'94 and the piano classic \'93Fur Elise.\'94
\par Answer: _Beethoven_ , Ludwig von
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl240\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }}