{\rtf1\mac \deff21 {\fonttbl {\f4\fnil Geneva;}{\f5\fnil Monaco;}{\f16384\fnil Chicago;}{\f1518\fnil Trajan;}{\f1797\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f21\fnil Times;}{\f24\fnil Symbol;}{\f133\fnil Sparta;}{\f1841\fnil Porson;}{\f17\fnil Palatino;}{\f10898\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f2037\fnil Old English Text;}{\f3\fnil New York;}{\f257\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f131\fnil Kadmos;}{\f258\fnil Kadmos(Sp);}{\f22\fnil Helvetica;}{\f23\fnil Courier;}{\f1793\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS;}{\f2011\fnil Comet-ANSI.SYS-Bold;}{\f1025\fnil ISO Latin-1;}{\f502\fnil ISO Latin-1 Bold;}{\f401\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational;}{\f402\fnil Comet-DEC Multinational Bold;}{\f1027\fnil CometChicagoFont;}{\f202\fnil CometFont;}{\f203\fnil CometBoldFont;}{\f2003\fnil Charcoal;}{\f1775\fnil Bosporus TT;}{\f2232\fnil Bosporus TT Vowels;}{\f2988\fnil Bosporus TT Ephemera;}{\f2073\fnil Bosporos-Greekkeys;}{\f259\fnil Bosporos–Greekkeys;}{\f132\fnil Attika;}{\f1209\fnil Athenian;}{\f13861\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 100;}{\f13862\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_790 900;}{\f13863\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 100;}{\f13864\fnil %MAdobeSerMM_110 900;}{\f6647\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 50;}{\f6648\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_1450 1450;}{\f6649\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 50;}{\f6650\fnil %MAdobeSanMM_50 1450;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet {\f4 \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s2 \ql \sl240 \f22 \sbasedon222 \snext2 Default;}{\*\cs3 \additive \ql \sl240 \f4 \fs18 \snext3 Default SS;}{\s4 \qc \sl240 \fs28 \b \sbasedon2 \snext4 Header;}{\s5 \ql \sl240 \sbasedon2 \snext5 Body;}{\s6 \qc \sl240 \i \sbasedon2 \snext6 Footer;}{\s7 \ql \sl240 \fs20 \sbasedon2 \snext7 Footnote;}{\*\cs8 \additive \ql \sl240 \up6 \snext8 Footnote Index;}}
\ftnbj \sbknone \fet2 \aenddoc \margl1440 \margr1440 {\headerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\headerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerr \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}{\footerl \pard \ql \sl240 {\f22 \par 
}
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Tossups by Wichita State for the 1998 ACF Regionals\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Orphaned as an adolescent, he wrote his first book while still a lad, and was sixteen years old when Cervantes and Shakespeare died.  He resembled the gaunt, ascetic figures of El Greco's canvases, and between 1615 and 1619 attended the famous Golden C}{\f21 entury universities of Alcala de Henares and Salamanca.  He wrote his first major play in 1623, titled "Love, Honor, and Power", and is considered the last major figure of the "Golden Age."  Identify this 17th century Spanish dramatist, FTP, famous for his}{\f21  metaphysical drama set in Poland titled "Life is a Dream."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Pedro _Calderon_ de la Barca\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  At her feet is a pendant figure--in this case, a slumbering lapdog. Behind her, a simple drape serves both to place her figure emphatically in the foreground and to press a vista into the background at the right half of the picture.  In the vista, two }{\f21 servants bend over a chest.  Deriving its title from the Duke who purchased it, FTP, identify this influential painting of a reclining female nude completed in 1538 by Titian.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Venus of Urbino_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  He was a naval aviator in World War I and afterwards began a career as an investment banker.  In June, 1940, he was appointed as an administrative assistant to President Roosevelt, and two months later became Under Secretary of the Navy.  Four years la}{\f21 ter he succeeded Frank Knox to become Secretary of the Navy.  FTP, identify this Cabinet official, who, with the reorganization of the War and Navy departments, became the first Secretary of Defense in 1947 and, after a long illness, committed suicide two }{\f21 years later.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  James _Forrestal_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  Dramatized in books by Harlan Lane, Francois Truffaut, and Roger Shattuck's "The Forbidden Experiment," from the reports of the hunters who had caught initial  glimpses of him, he was described as virtually naked, covered with scars, dirty, and inartic}{\f21 ulate.  Apparently he had survived on a diet of acorns and roots.  He walked on all fours much of the time and grunted like an animal.  Phillipe Pinel was asked to examine him and concluded that he was an incurable idiot, while Gespard Itard made great pro}{\f21 gress with him but was unable to teach him to talk.  FTP, identify the name associated with the twelve-year-old boy who emerged from the woods in southern France on January 9, 1800 after growing up in isolation.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  the _wild boy of Aveyron_, also accept _Victor_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  This procedure sees use in determining the causes of menstrual disorders, as well as detecting uterine cancer.  In it, an instrument is inserted through the cervix, and the inner wall of the uterus is scraped. The abraded cells are then removed and cul}{\f21 tures grown in a laboratory for examination.  FTP, name this procedure, abbreviated "D and C" and named for the actions performed.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Dilation and Curettage_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Prompt: _D and C_ prior to "abbreviated"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  Born in circa 1206 in the German town of Lauingen, he studied briefly at Padua and became a Dominican in 1223.  He was a regent master at Paris from 1242 until 1248, during which time Aquinas was one of his students, and in 1248 the two men became coll}{\f21 eagues at Cologne.  FTP, identify this medieval philosopher, known as doctor universalis because of his encyclopedic knowledge displayed in his voluminous writings.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Albertus Magnus_ Accept:  Albert the Great\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7.  He served with distinction at the capture of Louisburg and in the fight for Quebec during the French and Indian War, and took part in the Havana expedition of 1762.  In 1775 he arrived at Boston with British reinforcements for General Thomas Gage, and }{\f21 was a commander in the battle of Bunker Hill.  FTP, identify this British General, most known for his captures of New York and Philadelphia and for his failure to capture Washington's army.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Sir William _Howe_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8.  This substance was postulated in the late 17th century by chemists Johann Becher and Georg Stahl.  It was assumed to have a negative weight, making items which contained it lighter than those without.  It was finally debunked by Antoine Lavoisier, whos}{\f21 e work with oxygen proved that it combined with a substance upon combustion, rather than this substance being eliminated.  FTP, name this hypothetical element, named from the Greek for "flammable."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Phlogiston_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9.  First published in 1924, this novel can basically be read on two levels: mystic and polical.  Mystically it is concerned with the search for the infinite and eternal so characteristic of Oriental religion, and with the illogical and inexplicable in hum}{\f21 an life.  The visit to the Marabar Caves illustrates the malignant side of the mysticism, the Temple-Festival at the close, its benignity.  Politically it deals with the tensions between the British and the native Indians, as well as with the tension betwe}{\f21 en Hindus and Muslims.  FTP, divided into three sections which correspond to the three seasons of the Indian year: the Cold Weather, the Hot Weather, and the Rains, identify this E. M. Forster work.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _A Passage to India_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10.  He studied with Parry, Wood, and Stanford at the Royal College of Music and Cambridge, then had further lessons with Max Bruch in Berlin and Ravel in Paris.  His style was tonal and often evocative of the English countryside through the use of folk th}{\f21 emes, as in "Norfolk Rhapsodies." Among his symphonies are "Symphonia Antarctica," "A London Symphony,"and "Pastoral Symphony."  Indentify this composer, FTP, famous for such works as the opera "Sir John in Love," featuring the Elizabethan song "Greensleev}{\f21 es" and "Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Ralph _Vaughan Williams_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11.  Written in 1890, this anthropological work exerted considerable influence on writers such as T.S. Eliot and D.H. Lawrence, but by the standards of modern anthropology, many of its methods and findings are unsound.  It was a pioneer comparative study i}{\f21 n folklore, magic, and religion that showed parallel beliefs in primitive and Christian cultures. Identify this influential work, FTP, authored by the Scottish anthropologist James George Frazer.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _The Golden Bough_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12.  An example of this phenomenon is the pairing of the polyp and the hermit crab, found in deep water off the coast of Newfoundland: the polyp attaches itself to the crab's shell, eventually budding to cover the entire cell, which it then dissolves.  The}{\f21  colony grows at the same rate as the\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 crab, providing continuous protection, while the crab provides the polyp with a much greater food supply by its motion.  FTP, name this category of symbiosis in which the individual participants have grown so close that they are unable to separate, but do }{\f21 no harm to each other.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Commensalism_ prompt: _Symbiosis_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13.  His naval career was marked by a certain amount of controversy because of his outspoken opinions and unorthodox methods.  In World War II he served as head of the electrical section of the navy's Bureau of Ships. After the war he was assinged to the a}{\f21 tomic submarine project at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and helped convince the navy that nuclear sea power was feasible.  FTP, identify this admiral who directed the planning and construction of the world's first atomic-powered submarine, the Nautilus.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Hyman _Rickover_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  Born in Rochester, MI in 1958, this singer trained as a dancer at the University of Michigan before moving to New York to begin her professional career.  Her first album, a 1983 self-titled release, launched her career as a solo artist, with five sing}{\f21 les from the album reaching the Top 40.  She is also an actress, having starred in films such as Shanghai Surprise. FTP, name this actress, whose marketing savvy may be nearly as much as her musical talent, star of Body of Evidence and Desperately Seeking }{\f21 Susan.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Madonna_ Louise Ciccone\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15.  In this apparatus, an enclosure is filled with a low pressure gaseous mixture, and a set of electrodes at different electrical potentials.  When a particle or radiation enters the chamber, the gaseous sample is ionized, creating a pathway for electric}{\f21 al current.  This current is then amplified and measured, proving the entrance of radiation.  FTP, name this type of device, of which the  Geiger-Muller counter is a specific example.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Ionization Chamber_ \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16.  He was chairman of the Boston board of selectmen (equivalent to mayor) from 1799 to 1818.  In 1794 he designed the first theater in New England, the Federal Street Theater, which has been demolished.  Remaining are his chief monumental works, the stat}{\f21 ehouse is Boston, Massachusetts General Hospital, and University Hall at Harvard.  Identify this architect, FTP, whose completion of the capitol in Washington inspired state capitol architects throughout the U.S.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Charles _Bulfinch_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17.  She was the daughter of Ferdinand VII and Maria Christina, and her uncle contested her succession under the Salic Law, thus beginning the Carlist Wars.  Frequent rebellions during her reign culminated in 1868 in the insurrection led by Serrano and Jua}{\f21 n Prim, and she was deposed, spending the rest of her life in France.  FTP, identify this Spanish queen, whose character made a brief appearance in the recent film _Amistad_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Isabella II_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18.  Two volcanic ridges, running roughly west to east, segment the country, but in between are broad, fertile valleys, such as that of the Lampa, the principal river.  Among the ports are La Union, Acajutla, and La Libertad, and among the inland cities ar}{\f21 e San Miguel and Santa Ana.  FTP, identify this nation, the only Central American nation to have a Pacific coast but not a Caribbean one.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _El Salvador_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19.  The son of a sawyer, he pretended to be deeply religious and was named tutor to the children of Monsieur de Renal, the mayor of Verrieres.  He falls in love with Renal's wife, and Renal sends him to the seminary to get rid of him.  Later, after Madame}{\f21  de Renal has ruined his reputation in Paris, he returns to Verrieres where he shoots, but only wounds, Madame de Renal, a crime for which he is executed.  FTP, identify this main character of Stendhal's _The Red and the Black_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Julien_ Sorel or _Sorel_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20.  It is derived from the book of Matthew, chapter 6, verses 9 through 13, as well as the book of Luke, chapter 11, verses 2 through 4.  It consists of three petitions praising God and seeking his kingdom, followed by four passages concerning the spiritu}{\f21 al needs of the recitant.  The closing portion does not fit with the rest, and many theologians believe that it may have been added later in Church tradition.  FTP, name this prayer, recited as part of the Catholic mass, that begins "Our Father, who art in}{\f21  Heaven."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Lord's Prayer_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Accept: _Pater Noster_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 21.  He repeatedly refused high office with the government of Bao Dai until 1954, when he became prime minister.  He originally had the backing of the United States, but his favoritism toward his family and toward Roman Catholics over Buddhists caused subs}{\f21 tantial criticism by the early 1960s. FTP, identify this South Vietnamese leader, murdered in a coup in 1963 with the apparent backing of the CIA.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Ngo Dinh _Diem_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 22.  A member of the Communist party from 1927, he joined its central committee in 1939.  In the 1940s, as an aide to Joseph Stalin, he became recognized as an expert in economics and industry.  He held various other government and party posts before becom}{\f21 ing first deputy chairman of the USSR council of ministers in 1960.  FTP, identify this Soviet political leader, who in 1964 became premier, succeeding Khruschev, and sharing overall power with the general secretary of the Communist party, Leonid Brezhnev.}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Alexei _Kosygin_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 23.  Born in Estagel, this French astronomer and physicist was educated at the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris, where he was later appointed professor of analytical geometry and geodesy.  At the age of 23, he was also elected to the Paris Academy of Sciences.}{\f21   He studied astronomy, light polarization and magnetism, discovering the phenomenon of the production of magnetism by rotation.  FTP, name this Frenchman, born in 1786, who proved the relationship between the Aurora and variations in the Earth's magnetic }{\f21 field.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Dominique Francois Jean _Arago_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 24.  Principal characters in this this 1890 novel include two women that take the narrator for a madman because he tells the younger one that she is losing her book, when the fact of the matter is that she carries no book with her.  Later, the younger woma}{\f21 \cf5 n (now The Lady in Black) befriends the narrator because she is an adventuresome girl who is intrigued with the idea of odd experiences, including those that madmen might provide for her.  Identify this novel, set in Christiania, in which, FTP, a young man}{\f21 \cf5  down on his luck tries to write articles and plays but is paid so little for his work that he is constantly in a feverish state of mind due to lack of food.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Hunger_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 25.  Originally a sky deity associated with rain and agriculture, he developed into the great father god, prime portector of the state, concerned with all aspects of life.  At his temple on the Capitol, triumphant generals honored him with their spoils and}{\f21 \cf5  magistrates paid homage to him with sacrifices.  FTP, identify this Roman god, the son of Saturn and Ops and the brother and husband of Juno.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Jupiter_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 26.  Some actors try to sing, and some singers try to act, but this singer has definitely earned his acting chops.  His first role was in the musical "Hair," where he was cast as Ulysses S. Grant.  He has also been cast in Broadway and Off-broadway musical}{\f21 s, as well as in Shakespeare's Othello. On the recording side, his family lent a lot of influence to his decision, being a large gospel-singing family from Dallas, TX.  His pop singing career was given a great boost by a collaboration with an acting buddy,}{\f21  Jim Steinman, and rock producer Todd Rundgren.  FTP, name this actor/singer, born Marvin Lee Aday.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Meat Loaf_ Accept: Marvin Lee _Aday_ before "born"\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 27.  The subject of this drama, first presented circa A.D. 60, derives from Greek legend, and it has autobiographical parallels with its Roman author. In it, the title character, the brother of the rightful ruler of Argos, seduces and carries away the rule}{\f21 \cf5 r's wife and then steals a golden ram which is the symbol of power held by the ruler of the kingdom.  A civil war ensues and the title character is defeated and banished.  Identify this work of Seneca, considered the most lurid and gruesome tragedy to surv}{\f21 \cf5 ive from antiquity, which, FTP, culminates in the title character being invited back to Argos and being tricked into feasting on a banquet which includes the bodies of his three sons.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Thyestes_}{\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \page \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \fs36 Bonuses by Wichita State for the 1998 ACF Regionals\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Answer these questions about the Yalta Conference for the stated number of points.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5 points, the conference occured in what year?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _1945_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 5 points each, it admitted what two Soviet Socialist Republics to full UN membership?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Ukraine_, _Belorussia_ (Accept:  Belarus for Belorussia)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15 points, the agreements called for this Manchurian port to be internationalized.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Dalian_  (Accept:  Talien or Dairen)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Identify the American, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 30:  He supported Patrick Henry in his opposition to the Constitution, and in 1794 he was appointed minister to France in the hope that his Francophile sympathies would smooth the ruffled relations between the two nations over Jay's Treaty.  He was unable }{\f21 to do so, and was recalled in 1796.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20:  He was governor of Virginia from 1799 to 1802, and in 1802 was sent to France by President Jefferson to assist Robert Livingston during negotiations for the Louisiana Purchase.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10:  He lost only one electoral vote on his reelection, maintaining George Washington as the only president to be unanimously elected.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  James _Monroe_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Identify these pioneering psychologists from descriptions FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  In 1878 he founded at Leipzip the first laboratory for experimental psychology.  His experimental method remains a permanent contribution to psychology.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Wilhelm Max _Wundt_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  He studied with Wundt for two years and adopted only one aspect of Wundt's psychology--the study of sensation by trained introspection--refined it, and turned it into what he termed "structuralism," the study of the structure of the conscious mind.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Edward Bradford _Titchener_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Also a student of Wundt's, he is often considered to be America's first industrial psychologist, with his "Psychology and Industrial Efficiency," published in 1913, being the founding work.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Hugo _Munsterberg_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 4.  Answer the following questions about programming languages, for 10 points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This unstructured high-level language, the first lingua franca of microcomputers, was developed in the mid-1960's by John Kemeny and Thomas Kurtz.  It gained its popularity primarily due to the "Tiny" version of its implementation.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _BASIC_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This lingua franca of Artificial Intelligence was developed by John McCarthy in 1960, and is still used heavily today, despite the intrusion of Prolog.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _LISP_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  What key feature do BASIC and LISP share, a major departure from a majority of other high-level computer languages?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Line-by-line _Interpretation_ of program code (Accept: _Interpreted_ languages)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 5.  As you may have heard, an actor more famous for his portrayals of Shakespearean characters in self-directed films has agreed to do a film very far departed from the heady genre of theatrical adaptations, closer to the Quentin Tarentino style.  Answer t}{\f21 hese questions about it FTPE.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Who is this actor, writer, director, and producer, who has portrayed characters such as Hamlet, Iago, and Henry V?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Kenneth _Branagh_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  He has agreed to star in the next project from Bill Forsyth, Danny Boyle, Andrew Macdonald and John Hodge, a film about extraterrestrial interest in human sexual practices.  Name the film.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Alien Love Triangle_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Boyle, Macdonald, and Hodge are best known for what other film, "A wild, freeform, Rabelaisian trip through the darkest recesses of Edinburgh low-life."\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Trainspotting_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 6.  Two French kings--Philip IV (aka Philip the Fair), and Henry II had three children who also became king of France.  Identify, FFP each, those sons of:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Philip the Fair\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Louis X_, _Philip V_, _Charles IV_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 (Accept:  Louis the Quarrelsome, Philip the Tall, Charles the Fair)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Henry II\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Francis II_, _Charles IX_, _Henry III_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 7.  Identify these Nietzsche works from a description FTP each.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This 1884 work is a radical inversion of traditional values expressed in the guise of poetic prophetic writings.  Nietzsche puts his most radical thoughts into the mouth of a Persian mystic who died over 500 years before the birth of Christ.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Thus Spake Zarathustra_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 (Accept:  _Thus Spoke Zarathustra_ or _Also Sprach Zarathustra_)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This 1886 work carries forward, in a more aphoristic style, the same basic ideas as _Thus Spake Zarathustra_, but with particular attention to values and morality.  In particular, Nietzsche argues that the man who is master of his own virtues represent}{\f21 s what Nietzsche calls greatness.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Beyond Good and Evil_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This book was written in 1888, Nietzsche's most productive year, when he also wrote _Ecce Homo_ and _Nietzsche Contra Wagner_.  Originally called _A Psychologist's Idleness_, it is subtitled _How One Philosophizes with a Hammer_, and was influenced by }{\f21 Francis Bacon's _Novum Organum_.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Twilight of the Idols_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 8.  Answer the following questions about the life and works of Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy on a 5-10-15 basis.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5 points, at the age of 17, he composed the overture to this Shakespearean play which he was to produce highly successful incidental music for in 1843.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _A Midsummer Night's Dream_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10 points, this older sister of Felix was almost as talented a pianist and composer, and even published some works under her brother's name.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Fanny_ Mendelssohn-Bartholdy Hensel \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15 points, his gifts as a conductor also showed themselves early; in 1829 he directed a pioneering performance of this Johann Sebastian Bach work at the Berlin Singakademie, promoting the modern cultivation of Bach's music.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Saint Matthew Passion_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 9.  Given the years of their term or terms as Prime Minister of Britain, identify the Prime Minister, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  1855-1858\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Viscount _Palmerston_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  1908-1916\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Herbert _Asquith_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  1964-1970, 1974-1976\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Harold _Wilson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10.  Identify the following terms from metallurgical studies, 5-10-15.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  This is a force that acts in one direction, under which a material usually stretches, returning to its original dimensions upon removal of the force.  An example is a cable holding a weight.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Tension_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  This occurs when a material is subjected to repeated or cyclic stress.  Often unnoticed until its occurrence, this phenomenon results from several small fractures within the material itself, with little or no surface damage.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Fatigue_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15:  This is any slowly progressing, permanent deformation that is the result of a steady force acting on the material.  Found more often in materials that are subjected to high temperatures, this phenomenon may often act as a cure for itself.  Exa}{\f21 mples are the gradual loosening of bolts and the sagging of long cables.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Creep_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 11.  Answer the following questions about Jewish prayer ceremonies, for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5:  During Jewish prayer, custom dictates that the head be covered in deference to God's presence.  For an easy five points, give is the yiddish name of the head covering.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Yarmulke_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10:  Despite the belief that one's faith passes through the mother, Judaism is still quite patriarchal.  For ten points, give the name of the ten-man religious group that is required as quorum for Jewish prayer ceremonies. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Minyan_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  For 15:  Also known as the Amidah, or "standing" prayer, or the Shemoneh Esreh, because it originally contained eighteen benedictions, name this prayer which today contains 13 petitions for welfare and messianic restoration and six additional phrases, }{\f21 the only requirement of all worship services in Judaism.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Taffileh_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 12.  Identify the following characters from F. Scott Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby" FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  A friend of the Buchanans, Daisy introduces her to Nick and tries to throw them together, but when Nick realizes that she is a cheat who refuses to assume the elementary responsibility of the indivudual, he loses all interest in her. \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Jordan_ Baker or _Baker_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  A gambler and underworld associate of Gatsby, he is the one who supposedly "fixed" the 1919 World Series.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Meyer_ Wolfshiem or _Wolfshiem_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Tom Buchanan's mistress, she is a fat, unpleasant woman who is so appreciative of the fact that her lover is a rich man that she will suffer almost any degradation for him.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Myrtle_ Wilson or _M_yrtle _Wilson_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 13.  Given a Supreme Court case, identify who was serving as Chief Justice at the time of the case, FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Dred Scott v. Sandford\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Roger B. _Taney_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Plessy v. Ferguson\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Melville _Fuller_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Munn v. Illinois\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Morrison _Waite_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 14.  FFP each, and a five point bonus for all correct, identify the five films that were nominated for the Golden Globe award for best drama.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Amistad_, _The Boxer_, _Good Will Hunting_, _L.A. Confidential_, _Titanic_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 15.  [handout of painting]  Here\'d5s a painting.  For 10 points each, tell me...\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  The title, also the name of the pale figure pictured in the middle of it.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Salome_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  The 19th-century Frenchman who painted this \'d2Salome.\'d3\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Gustave _Moreau_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  Finally, Oscar Wilde\'d5s \'d2Salome\'d3 was illustrated by what Englishman famous for his black-and-white ink drawings?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Aubrey _Beardsley_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 16.  Identify the following Anthony Trollope works for 15 points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  Published in two volumes in 1869, Louis Trevelyan marries Emily Rowley, daughter of the governor of the Mandarin Islands.  Upon the couple's return to England, Trevelyan becomes increasingly jealous of attentions paid to Emily by an older man.  Trevely}{\f21 an abducts their son and takes him to Italy, where Trevelyan suffers a complete emotional breakdown.  Although partial recognition takes place, Trevelyan dies shortly after his return to England.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _He Knew He Was Right_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  Set in a cathedral town in the west of England, the novel opens with the political appointment of Dr. Proudie as the new bishop.  This event sets up the main conflict of the novel--the traditional (represented by the High Church forces, led by Archdeac}{\f21 on Grantly) versus the new (represented by the Low Church newcomers, led by Mrs. Proudie and, initially, her protege, the ambitious Mr. Obadiah Slope.)\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Barchester Towers_          \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 17.  Answer these questions about the Diet of Worms (\'d2Verms\'d3) for the stated number of points.  \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  For 5 points, as a result of the Diet, this religious thinker was formally declared an outlaw.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  Martin _Luther_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  For 10 points, the Diet of Worms took place in what year?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _1521_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This Holy Roman Emperor led the diet that outlawed Luther.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Charles V_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 18.  Answer the following about Greek sacrifice gone wrong, 15 each:\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  She was the eldest daughter of Agamemnon and sister of Electra and Orestes who was sacrificed to the goddess Artemis to obtain favorable winds.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Iphigenia_ \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  When Troy had been sacked, the ghost of Achilles demanded that this daughter of Priam and Hecuba be slain so that she would be his companion in the underworld.  Achilles\'d5 son Neoptolemus dutifully sacrificed her.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer:  _Polyxena_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 19.  Identify the following scientist, 30-20-10.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 30:  Born in 1779, this Swede was made a baron in 1835 by Charles XIV John, and was the permanent secretary of the Stockholm Academy of Sciences from 1818 until his death in 1848.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20:  He was primarily responsible for the theory of Radicals, and his theoretical work was supported by vast experimental measurement.  He was professor of botany and pharmacy at Stockholm, fitting as he received a degree in medicine from the University of}{\f21  Uppsala.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 10:  This scientist introduced the modern nomenclature for identifying chemical elements by two-letter symbols, introduced the term and theory behind catalysts, and discovered cerium, selenium, and thorium.  He was also the first to isolate silicon, zircon}{\f21 ium, and titanium.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: Baron J\'9ans Jakob _Berzelius_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 20.  Identify these following disgusting green foods from a botanical description.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 1.  This annual crop plant of the family Chenopodiaceae.  is grown for its nutritious and savory leaves.  It became most popular in the 1920's, when it was shown to be high in iron, vitamin A, and riboflavin.  The Savoy variety can be shipped without spoil}{\f21 ing, and is the fresh version of this plant. The smooth-leaved variety is shipped either canned or frozen.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Spinach_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 2.  This plant is grown wild in southern Europe and cultivated in the United States, primarily in California.  Of the family Asteraceae, this table vegetable grows up to one meter high, and the plant's leaves are long, and somewhat spiny.  The immature flo}{\f21 wer is harvested for eating, with the fleshy bases of the scales and the heart of the plant being the "most desirable" portions.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Artichoke_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 3.  This fruit of a tree belonging to the family Lauraceae, native to tropical America, has a consistency of firm butter, and a faint nutlike flavor.  The fruit is a thick-skinned drupe, the size of a large pear, yielding an alternative name for the fruit.}{\f21   It is popular in the United States as a salad topping, and is used throughout the tropics in soups.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Answer: _Avocado_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 Accept: _Alligator Pear_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 The country of Zaire may have changed its name, but that doesn't mean that the letter Z has disappeared from geography.  Identify these Z-terms from world geography from a brief description, for 5 points each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  State in north-central Mexico whose capital has the same name.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Zacatecas_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  Capital of Croatia.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Zagreb_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  Mountain system in western Iran.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Zagros_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 4.  River in which Victoria Falls is.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Zambezi_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 5.  Island that is off the coast of, and part of, Tanzania.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Zanzibar_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 6.  Dutch province bordering Belgium.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Zeeland_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 The production of Sodium Hydroxide is accomplished in industrial settings by the chlor-alkali process, named for the Chlorine gas and the strong alkali that are the end products of this reaction.  Essentially powered by self-sustaining current, the cells p}{\f21 \cf5 roduce NaOH and Cl2 gas from an aqueous solution of table salt.  For 10 points each, name the three types of chlor-alkali cells in use today, named for the characteristics of their anode.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer: _Diaphragm_ Cell, _Mercury_ Cell, _Membrane_ Cell\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer the following questions about the works by Edvard Munch FTP each.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 1.  He created an open sequence of several paintings, to be hung together, developing a theme and interpretation in much the same manner as a musical composition.  They were based on his own personal experience and from his reflections on current psycholog}{\f21 \cf5 ical theories.  Twenty-two works from this series hung together in Berlin in 1902.  By what name was this collection of works known?\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _The Frieze of Life_, accept _The Dance of Life_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 2.  This 1892 work from the "Frieze of Life" depicts two bodies so merged in an embrace as to become one form.  Rodin, Brancusi, and Klimt also created works with this title.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _The Kiss_\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 3.  This 1895 work, also from the "Frieze of Life," depicts a nude, adolescent girl that has become rigid with apprehension, as if from either the sudden appearance of an intruder or her own just-as-sudden awareness of herself in a mirror.\par 
}\pard \s2 \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 Answer:  _Puberty_\par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}\pard \ql \sl240 \tql\tx0 \tql\tx720 \tql\tx1440 \tql\tx2160 \tql\tx2880 \tql\tx3600 \tql\tx4320 \tql\tx5040 \tql\tx5760 \tql\tx6480 \tql\tx7200 \tql\tx7920 \tql\tx8640 {\f21 \cf5 \par 
}}