{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\fs20 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title His name literally means "grower remover" and represents the interplay between}{\author Brian Rostron}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain 
\fs20 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Arkansas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

1. Jay Cocks and Martin Scorsese wrote two scenes each for this film, though neither one received writing credits.  Paul Schrader got credit for writing it, and Scorsese received director's credit.  With a cast including Harry Dean Stanton and Barbara Hers
hey in two of the stranger role
s of their careers, Willem Dafoe plays the title character and Harvey Keitel plays his betrayer in this story about a messiah faced with a choice of fulfilling his mission or living a normal life.  FTP, what is this once-controversial 1988 movie based on a
 novel of the same name by Nikos Kazantzakis? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Last Temptation of Christ}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. It is said to be the most frequently performed Greek play in modern times, primarily because it deals with such timely themes.  Lampito is a Spartan and exhibits the usual Spartan virtues \endash 
 athleticism, strength, and courage.  Cinesias is the husband of Myrrhine and crazed with lust begs her to return.  The title character is an idealistic Athenian who carries out her plan to seize the Acropolis with a band of celibate
 women in order to stop war.  FTP name this play by Aristophanes.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lysistrata}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3. Japan used them as a submarine base during WWII, and oil was discovered there in 1976, literally adding the fuel to the fire concerning these sandbars and small reef
 islands.  They command the sea passage from Japan to Singapore and all or parts are claimed by Malaysia, Japan, the Philippines, and most notably, Taiwan and China, who often threaten to go to war over them.  FTP, what is this disputed island group?
\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Spratley}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
\par 
4. About 1 cm across, slender ducts from these glands transport a fluid knownas precoital mucus to the urethra where it helps flush and lubricate before ejaculation.  They are found beneath the prostate gland at the beginning of t
he internal portion of the penis and near the seminal vesicles.  For ten points identify this pair of male glands, originally named for their English discoverer.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Cowper}{\f21\fs18 's glands or }{\f21\fs18\ul bulbourethral}{\f21\fs18  glands\par 
\par 

5. It was fought alongside a river called "Pinarus," which is thought to be either the Payaz or Deli Rivers north of Iskenderun in modern-day southern Turkey.  The Macedonian phalanx and cavalry crossed the river and smashed the Persian left, forcing Dariu
s to flee, but allowing the rest of his family to be captured.  FTP, what was this decisive 333BC victory of Alexander the Great?\par 
\tab Answer: Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Issus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. His burlesque opera based on a 1903 play by Guillaume Apollinaire, entitled }{\i\f21\fs18 Les Mamelles de Tiresias}{\f21\fs18 
, tells of a woman who becomes a man when her breasts explode, and her husband becomes a woman and gives birth to 40,000 babies.  He also wrote the incidental music to }{\i\f21\fs18 Babar the Elephant}{\f21\fs18 
.  His most famous opera is set against the backdrop of the French Revolution, and is considered on of the outstanding operas of the 20th century.  For 10 points, who was this member of Les Six and composer of }{\i\f21\fs18 Les Dialogues des Carmelites}{
\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: Francois }{\f21\fs18\ul Poulenc\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 
7. In May of 1940 he and a group of militant followers attacked Leon Trotsky's fortified house outside Mexico City, peppering his rooms with machine gunfire, throwing grenades, and detonating dynamite.  Somehow Trotsky and his wife escaped without a scratc
h.  This leader of the raid also edited the communist nespaper }{\i\f21\fs18 El Machete}{\f21\fs18 , was an associate of Dieg
o Rivera, and led the Mexican Communist Party after Rivera was thrown out.  Like Rivera, he was also an artist, with murals entitled }{\i\f21\fs18 The March of Humanity}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Portrait of the Bourgeoisie}{\f21\fs18 
 considered to be some of his best work. FTP, who was this Mexican activist and artist, the last of the great Mexican muralists?\par 
\tab Answer: David Alfaro }{\f21\fs18\ul Siqueiros}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. In electrodynamics, its analog is the Christoffel voltage.  In the Navier-Stokes equations, it is propotional to omega cross v where v is the velocity and omega 
is the rotation.  It arises using Newton's laws in a rotating reference frame.  For ten points, name this force which is responsible for the rotation of hurricanes and the deflection of artillery shells. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Coriolis}{\f21\fs18  force\par 
\par 

9. In 1857, she wrote the first biography of Charlotte Bronte.  Her first novel tells of a working-class family in Manchester whose father becomes disillusioned with the economic exploitation of his day and carries out a murder for his trade union.  Perhap
s her finest work is }{\i\f21\fs18 Wives and Daughters}{\f21\fs18 , which concerns the social relations of rural families, left unfinished at her death in 1865.  Her }{\i\f21\fs18 North and South}{\f21\fs18 
 highlights the regional differences in industrial England.  FTP name this Victorian novelist.\par 
\tab Answer:  Elizabeth }{\f21\fs18\ul Gaskell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

10. The first was held in London in 1900 and was mainly attended by representatives from the U.S., Britain, and the West Indies.  The second, organized by W.E.B. DuBois in Paris in 1919, discussed ways of improving the post-war colonial governments.  The f
ift
h, held in Manchester in 1945, included a wide variety of African delegates and demanded immediate independence for all African peoples.  FTP name these international meetings whose function has largely been taken over by the Organization of African Unity.
\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Pan-African Congress}{\f21\fs18 es\par 
\par 
11. Bailey, Borwein, and Plouffe found an algorithm for extracting any of its hexdecimal digits.  Ramanujan provided a quartically-convergent algorithm for computing it. Buffon linked it to probability in his needle probl
em and von Lindemann proved it was transcendental. For ten points, what number did Archimedes note lay between 3 and one-seventh and 3 and ten over seventy-one. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

12. He was born in Scotland, the son of a Glasgow miner, and as a youth he earned money selling shoes and selling firewood.  In 1879, he left Scotland and moved to the United States, where his uncle was a riverboat captain on the Mississippi.  In 1882 he s
taked out a claim and mined copper in Montana; the mine boomed.  That combined wi
th his stock in RCA gave him 3 cubic acres of money by the late 1940s.  In 1910 he moved to the city of Duckberg and constantly battled the Beagle Boys for his fortune.  FTP, name this Disney comic book character whose fortune is estimated at 91 multipliji
llion, 9 obsquatumatillian, 632 dollars and 62 cents.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Scrooge McDuck}{\f21\fs18   (Prompt on Uncle Scrooge)\par 
\par 
13. It was first published in a small El Paso newspaper in 1915, and ten years later its writer achieved worldwide renown.  It tells of the pacifistic
 Indian Demetrio Macias who is forced to side with Mexican rebels to save his family, but almost despite himself he becomes a general in Pancho Villa's army.  As the rebels start losing, Macias becomes disenchanted with the life of a revolutionary.  Regard
ed as the greatest novel of the Mexican revolution, FTP, what is this Mariano Azuela work?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Underdogs}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Los de }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Abajo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. In 1822 geologist Gideon Mantill uncovered the bones and teeth of a large animal.  Three years later, he found modern liz
ard teeth which were similar to the mystery animal's except smaller.  Mantill had discovered this beaked, herbivorous dinosaur, one of the first to be classified.  Forten points, name this herding dinosaur whose most notable features wereits two spiked thu
mbs? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul iguanodon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. His Indian name was Mahpiua Luta and in 1869 signed the Fort Laramie Treaty in which he promised not to fight against the settlers, so he didn't participate in the war that culminated at Little Bighorn.  This marked a major ch
ange of heart, for he had been a thorn in the side to settlers and military personnel in the upper midwest.  FTP, who was this Oglala Sioux chief from Nebraska who became more accommodating to the US government after his leading the armed resistance along 
the Bozeman Trail?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Red Cloud\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 16. It began as an autonomous constitutional monarchy with the Russian empire with its own legal system, parliament, and army.  Nicholas I paid scant attention to its liberal constitution, however, and the Organic Sta
tute of 1832 effected a true union with Russia.  Nationalist sentiments led to the January Insurrection of 1863 in Warsaw, but the Russians soon crushed it, effectively ending any autonomy this state may have had.  FTP name this kingdom set up as a Russian
 puppet state at Vienna in 1815.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Congress Kingdom of Poland}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. His name literally means "grower remover" and represents the interplay between life and death. He was first appeared to defeat the tyrannical demon Guha, when, not able to defeat Gu
ha single-handedly, two gods were forced to unite themselves in order to defeat him.  Many sculptures of him are found in the ruins of Angkor Wat, and his body's right side is depicted as Shiva and his left as Vishnu.  FTP, name this Khmer deity, a combina
tion of Vishnu and Shiva. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hari-Hara}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Sankara-Narayana}{\f21\fs18  (Accept Vishnu-Shiva or Vishnu-Siva, if they buzz before the first "Shiva".)\par 
\par 
18. When he came to Brooklyn from southern Italy in 1905, he became sickly and grew spindly.  As he later recalled, \ldblquote I was a 97 pound runt.  I was skinny, pale, nervous, and weak.\rdblquote 
  After observing a tiger at the zoo, he developed his concept of isometric exercises, pitting muscle against muscle.  Soon, he had a flourishing mail-order business that promised to turn 
wimps into bulging he-men.  Six million purchased the course making him a millionaire.  FTP name this body-building guru, born Angelo Siciliano.\par 
\tab Answer:  Charles }{\f21\fs18\ul Atlas\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 19. It has a mass of 940 MeV per c squared and when in a free state this particle deca
ys in about 900 seconds.  At first this beta decay appeared to violate energy conservation, leading to the proposal of the neutrino.  Consisting of two down and one up quark, the decay products are an antineutrino, an electron, and a proton.  For ten point
s, name this uncharged nucleon.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul neutron}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20. She leads an isolated life on an island, constantly weaving pictures from reflections in a mirror, while never actually looking out her window at reality.  When Sir Lancelot passes by her window, she is
 struck by his beauty, and looks out the window and dies.  This describes, FTP, what 1832 poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson?\par 
\tab Answer: "The }{\f21\fs18\ul Lady of Shalott}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
\par 

T1. The cell wall of E. coli is low in peptidoglycan content and high in lipids. Like other bacteria, such as Y. pestis, when E. coli are heat-fixed, treated with a crystal-violet stain, and flushed with iodine and then alcohol, they will not remain purple
. For ten points, these bacteria are negative on what microbiological test which was not named for a unit of measurement. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul gram}{\f21\fs18  stain (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul gram-negative}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
T2. He is mainly remembered for one novel, written in 1796 when he was 19. However, some of his other works include the plays }{\i\f21\fs18 The Castle Secret}{\f21\fs18 
 and The Wood Demon and the poem "Alonzo the Brave and the Fair Imogene" which appeared in his highly successful novel that came off the heels of Anne Radcliffe's }{\i\f21\fs18 Mysteries of Udolpho}{\f21\fs18 .  FTP, name this English Gothic writer of }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Monk}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Matthew Gregory }{\f21\fs18\ul Lewis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T3. He condemned the 1944 anti-Hitler
 plot, and as head of the German High Command he was a major organizer of the Nazi bombings of English cities as well as an issuer of orders to shoot POWs and commandos.  He was executed after the Nuremberg trials, but a Munich de-Nazification court said h
e wasn't a major offender.  FTP, who was this advisor of Hitler and Chief of Operation staff at the end of the war whose last name sounds like a snack cake?\par 
\tab Answer: Alfred }{\f21\fs18\ul Jodl}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
After being incarcerated in the Ohio State Penitentiary for armed robbery, he began to write fiction, and several of his articles were published in }{\i\f21\fs18 Esquire}{\f21\fs18 
 and other magazines while he was in jail.  After his release he wrote novels such as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Crazy Kill}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Cotton Comes to Harlem}{\f21\fs18 
, both murder mysteries.  FTP, who is this black author whose most famous novel is }{\i\f21\fs18 If He Hollers Let Him Go}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: Chester }{\f21\fs18\ul Himes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Arkansas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. Identify the following about viruses for ten points apiece.   \par 
1.  This is the protein coat that surrounds a virus, protects its genetic material, and aids its transfer between host cells.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul capsid}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul nucleocapsid}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  This type of virus differs from other RNA viruses in that it synthesizes mRNA and replicates by means of DNA intermediates using reverse transcriptase, from which it gets its name.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul retrovirus}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  One of two life cycles of a virus. Unlike the lysogenic cycle, it consists of a latent period and a rise period, or burst period. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul lytic}{\f21\fs18  cycle\par 
\par 
2. Identify the following really tall manmade structures for the stated number of points. \par 
1. For five points, this 1,815 foot-tall Toronto landmark is the tallest self-supporting structure on Earth.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul CN}{\f21\fs18  Tower \par 
2. For ten points, This building in Kuala Lampur, Malaysia, is the tallest building on earth, though it will soon be surpassed by Shanghai's Daewoo Center.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Petronas}{\f21\fs18  Tower \par 
3. For 15 points, in 1991 this 2,121 foot-tall Polish radio mast, the tallest in the world, fell down during renovation.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Grozny Warszawa}{\f21\fs18  (Warsaw) Radio Mast\par 
\par 
3. Identify the legendary character from clues on a 30-20-10 basis. \par 
1. In his kingdom were ants that dug gold, fish that created the color purple,  and subterranean streams with sand made of gems.  Before his vast armies stood thirteen crosses of gold to impress his heathen enemies. \par 
2. This descendant of the African magus who visited the baby Jesus purportedly sent a letter to Portuguese emperor Manuel I in 1165, in which he offered his support in the Christians' attempt to subdue the Muslims. \par 
3. Spanish quests for El Dorado and the Fountain of Youth along with many early Portuguese exploratory voyages stemmed from the search for this mythical African king.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Prester John}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Presbyter John\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 4. Answer these questions about a noted military and political leader FTSNOP. \par 
1.\tab (10 points)  This Albanian-born leader served as viceroy of Egypt from 1805 to 1848, modernizing the country and extending its territory in the Middle East. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Muhammad Ali}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.\tab (5)  In 1811, Muhammad Ali massacred these soldiers who had ruled Egypt for centuries, and who will probably be mentioned about 6 times in this tournament. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Mamluks\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.\tab (15)  This son of Muhammad Ali invaded Greece in 1824 to aid the Turks and captured Athens, but was compelled to leave after the European powers intervened. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ibrahim }{\f21\fs18 Pasha \par 
\par 
5. Identify the authors of the following pairs of early American works of literature for ten points each. \par 
1.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Ormand}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Wieland}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Charles Brockden }{\f21\fs18\ul Brown}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  }{\i\f21\fs18 History of New York}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Alhambra}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Washington }{\f21\fs18\ul Irving}{\f21\fs18  (Prompt on Diedrich Knickerbocker) \par 
3.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Red Rover}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Satanstoe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: James Fenimore }{\f21\fs18\ul Cooper}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. Identify the following reactions of organic chemistry for ten points each.  \par 
1.  This type of cycloaddition reaction named for its two discoverers involves the making of a cyclic alkene from non-cyclic reagents--a diene and a dienophile.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Diels-Alder}{\f21\fs18  reaction \par 
2. Also named for its two discoverers, in one form an aromatic is attacked by an acyl halide or anhydride in the presence of a Lewis acid, usually aluminum cholride.  The result is an aryl alkyl or diaryl ketone. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Friedel-Crafts}{\f21\fs18  reaction \par 
3. A general class of reactions where an alkyl halide, magnesium metal, and ether combine to form an organomagnesium halide.  The product reagants share their name with the reaction. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Grignard}{\f21\fs18  reactions\par 
\par 
7. Name the battle fought in that \ldblquote cockpit of Europe,\rdblquote  the Low Countries FTSNOP. \par 
1.\tab (15 points) At this 1513 battle, Henry VIII and the forces of Emperor Maximilian defeated the French forces, who it was said lost a certain item in their haste to flee.\par 
\tab Answer:  Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Guineagate}{\f21\fs18  or the Battle of the }{\f21\fs18\ul Spurs}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.\tab (10) Marlborough won this 1709 battle near Mons, but his losses were considerable. \par 
\tab Answer:  Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Malplaquet}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.\tab (5) Von Blucher and Wellington beat Napoleon in 1815 at this site now in Belgium. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Waterloo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. Identify the following biblical characters that may or may not have something in common for ten points each. \par 
1.  In the book of Genesis, he is the son of Cush and is known as "a mighty hunter before the lord"\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Nimrod}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  She represents ancient Israel that is saved but then returns to her harlot roots.  She is saved from a life of prostitution by Hosea, but after having two kids returns to her whorish roots.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gomer}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  In Joppa in the book of Acts Peter raises this woman whose name is Greek for gazelle, also known as Tabitha, which is Aramaic for gazelle from the dead. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Dorcas\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 9. Answer the following regarding Shakespeare's }{\i\f21\fs18 Othello}{\f21\fs18  for ten points each. \par 
1.  Although the subtitle of the play is "The Moor of Venice," most of the action takes place on this island.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cyprus}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. Iago is passed over for promotion by Othello in favor of this man.  This makes Iago kinda mad.\par 
\tab Answer: Michael }{\f21\fs18\ul Cassio}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  He is a suitor of Desdemona, but after realizing that she loves Othello, he unwittingly assists Iago in his plans for revenge but dies before figuring out what's going on.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Roderigo\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 10. Answer the following questions about low-temperature physics for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 points) One low temperature is that where helium-4 liquefies.  Within 30%, at what Kelvin temperature does this occur at atmospheric pressure? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 4.2}{\f21\fs18  Kelvin (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul 2.9 - 5.4}{\f21\fs18  Kelvin) \par 
2. (10 points) For helium-4, this phenomemon begins at 2.2 Kelvin and is chracterized by a sudden loss of viscosity.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul superfluid}{\f21\fs18 ity \par 
3.  (5 points) At low temperatures, many materials are superconductors.  A junction formed by a thin insulating barrier separating two superconductors, produces several novel effects.  Name this device. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Josephson}{\f21\fs18  junction \par 
4. (10 points) Superfluidity and superconductivity are examples of this phenomenon first observed with gases in 1995 at the University of Colorado. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bose}{\f21\fs18 -}{\f21\fs18\ul Einstein}{\f21\fs18  condensation\par 
\par 
11. Answer the following questions about Portugal for ten points each. \par 
1.  This region on the south coast of the nation is the most touristed region in Portugal due to its sandy beaches and rocky coves.  Its major towns include Faro, Lagos, and Sagres, the site of Henry the Navigator's naval school.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Algarve}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  This city, the nation's second largest is famous for its wine, which is named after the city.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Porto}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Oporto}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  This historic city, capital of Portugal from 1143-1255, is home to Portugal's oldest and most prestigious university, founded in 1290.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Coimbra}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. Answer the following about an 1859 translation and publication of a book of poems that led to a Victorian passion of "oriental" poetry.  For ten points each. \par 
1.  What Persian poet had his work translated into English?\par 
\tab Answer: Omar }{\f21\fs18\ul Khayyam}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  What English man of letters compiled loosely translated Khayyam's work?\par 
\tab Answer: Edward }{\f21\fs18\ul FitzGerald}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  "Rubaiyat" is the Persian word for what type of stanza, the type used exclusively in the work?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Quatrain}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. Identify the economist given a pair of works for 10 points each. \par 
1. The Road to Serfdom and The Pure Theory of Capital\par 
\tab Answer: Friedrich August von }{\f21\fs18\ul Hayek}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. The New Industrial State and The Age of Uncertainty\par 
\tab Answer: John Kenneth }{\f21\fs18\ul Galbraith}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. The Theory of Economic Development and Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy \par 
\tab Answer: Joseph Alois }{\f21\fs18\ul Schumpeter}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. Give the common name of these unsolved mathematical problems for ten points each. \par 
1. Every even number integer than two is the sum of two primes.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Goldbach}{\f21\fs18 's conjecture \par 
2. The real part of every complex zero of the zeta function is one-half.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Riemann}{\f21\fs18  hypothesis \par 
3. There are infinitely many pairs of primes whose difference is 2.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul twin primes}{\f21\fs18  conjecture\par 
\par 
15. Name the US State in which the following trios of cities are located for 10 points apiece. \par 
1.  Enid, Lawton, Shawnee\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Oklahoma}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  Brinkley, Searcy, Fort Smith \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Arkansas }{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Mandan, Dickinson, Minot \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul North Dakota}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. Name the music form from classical music given a description for 10 points each. \par 
1.  This form features a tuneful main theme that returns several times in    alternation with other themes.  Common patterns are A B A C A and A B A C A B A, and Beethoven's "Gypsy" string quartet is a notable example of this form.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Rondo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Often taking place during the first movement of a concerto and sometimes the last as well, the orchestra stops playing while the featured soloist displays his virtuosity.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cadenza}{\f21\fs18  \par 

3.    The basso variety is sometimes called the "ground base" in English. Generally, it is a musical phrase-usually in the lowest line in the score-that is repeated over and over, continuously, during the course of a  piece or passage to serve as a foundat
ion for all sorts of melodic, harmonic, and rhythmic variations and elaborations taking place in the musical lines above it.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ostinato}{\f21\fs18  (from the Italian for "obstinate")\par 
\par 
17. Identify the following stars on a 10-5 basis. \par 
1. (10 points) The B minus V and B minus U color indices for this A0 star are defined to be 0.\par 
(5 points) It was the source of the extraterrestrial signals in the book and movie }{\i\f21\fs18 Contact}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vega}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul alpha Lyrae}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (10 points) Actually a triple star, the brightest of which is a Cepheid variable, it's the brightest star in the constellation containing Kocab and Pherkad.\par 
(5 points)  Its current declination is +89.3 degrees.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Polaris}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul alpha Ursae Minoris}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. (10 points) It has an apparent visible magnitude of -1.5 and is only 8.6 light-years from Earth.\par 
(5 points) Its rising just before sunrise marked the flooding of the Nile for the ancient Egyptians.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sirius}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul alpha Canis Majoris}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. When given a battle of the American Revolution, identify the leading general on the side that won and the general on the side that lost for five points each and don't forget to specify which one won and which won lost. \par 
1.  Saratoga\par 
\tab Answer: Horatio }{\f21\fs18\ul Gates won}{\f21\fs18  and John }{\f21\fs18\ul Burgoyne lost}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  Brandywine\par 
\tab Answer: William }{\f21\fs18\ul Howe won}{\f21\fs18  and George }{\f21\fs18\ul Washington lost}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  Princeton\par 
\tab Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Washington won}{\f21\fs18  and Lord }{\f21\fs18\ul Cornwallis lost}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. Given a work of biography or history written during late antiquity or the early middle ages, identify the author for ten points each. \par 
1.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Life of St. Anthony}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 Vita Antonii}{\f21\fs18 , which tells the life of the Egyptian hermit and early monastic Anthony.  This is considered to be one of the first hagiographies, or saints' lives.\par 
\tab Answer: St. }{\f21\fs18\ul Athanasius}{\f21\fs18  of Alexandria \par 
2.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Secret History}{\f21\fs18 , or the }{\i\f21\fs18 Anecdota}{\f21\fs18 , in whic
h the author portrays the Byzantine Emperor Justinian as the Prince of Demons who roams the halls of the place at night carrying his head in his hands and reveals his wife Theodora's life as a prostitute, stripper, and nymphomaniac.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Procopius}{\f21\fs18  of Caesarea \par 
3.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Life of Charlemagne}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 Vita Karoli}{\f21\fs18 --this work is one of the earliest political biographies and is modeled after Suetonius' }{\i\f21\fs18 Life of the Emperor Augustus}{\f21\fs18 
.  In it Charlemagne is portrayed as Christ, David, Solomon, and other biblical figures rolled into one.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Einhard}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Eginhard}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20. Answer the following concerning the 1881 assassination of James Garfield for ten points each. \par 
1.  Charles Guiteau can be said to have a "monopoly" on shooting presidents in train stations, gunning Garfield down in this DC station.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Baltimore and Ohio}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul B and O}{\f21\fs18  Station \par 
2.  After Guiteau shot Garfield, he yelled out that Chester A. Arthur was now president and he was one of these.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Stalwart}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  This New York senator who resigned his seat upon Garfield's election was the leader of the stalwarts.\par 
\tab Answer: Roscoe }{\f21\fs18\ul Conkling}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Answer the following concerning molecular shapes for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (10 points) This theory, known by a 5-letter acronym, grew from Lewis' theory.  It supposes all electron pairs repel and that molecular shapes minimize these repulsions. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul VSEPR}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (5 points) Expand the acronym VSEPR.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul valence shell electron pair repulsion}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. (10 points)  Hybrid bonds can form if the shape is energetically favorable. What is the hybridization of carbon in a methane molecule.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul sp3}{\f21\fs18   \par 
4. (5 points)  What is the hybridization of phosphorous in phosphorous pentachloride\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul sp3d}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
Identify the following related things for ten points each.   \par 
1. This pigment secreted by the liver gives feces its characteristic color.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul bilirubin}{\f21\fs18   \par 
2. First identified by geologist William Buckland, this is the name for fossilized animal feces.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul coprolite}{\f21\fs18   \par 
3. One order of mammals naturally partakes in coprophagy, the eating of feces.  Name this order for which the practice appears to provide necessary vitamins.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lagomorpha}{\f21\fs18  (rabbits, hares)\par 
}}