{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff6\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}
{\f164\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f165\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f167\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f168\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f169\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f170\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f171\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info
{\title 1999 ACF Nationals}{\author boggyman}{\operator Matthew Weiner}{\creatim\yr2000\mo7\dy1\hr3\min18}{\revtim\yr2000\mo11\dy13\hr8\min24}{\version4}{\edmins1}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords3750}{\nofchars21376}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws26251}{\vern8247}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f6\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\fs22 1999 ACF Nationals
\par Tossups by Berkeley}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 1. As a member of parliament for Westminster, he proposed an amendment to the 1867 Reform Act that would have given women the right to vote, but it was turned down. Although not credited, his wife Harriet Taylor helped him write many of his works, includi
ng }{\i\f0\fs22 The Subjection of Women}{\f0\fs22  and }{\i\f0\fs22 The Principles of Political Economy}{\f0\fs22 . FTP, name this leading liberal intellectual of the 19th century whose most influential work is }{\i\f0\fs22 On Liberty}{\f0\fs22 .
\par \tab Answer: John Stuart }{\f0\fs22\ul Mill}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 2. A protege of anti-Jacksonian editor Thurlow Weed, he
 began his career as an antislavery Whig, serving as governor of New York. In the Senate, he opposed the Compromise of 1850 because of its tough Fugitive Slave Law, warning his opponents that the issue of slavery was governed by a "Higher Law". Joining th
e new Republican Party, he emerged as the front runner in 1860, only to be passed over for the more moderate Lincoln. FTP, name this Republican leader that served as Lincoln's secretary of state, and was responsible for the purchase of Alaska from Russia.

\par \tab Answer: William Henry }{\f0\fs22\ul Seward}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 3. In 1964, Wladyslaw Moes claimed to be the inspiration for this work of literature, which was also partly inspired by an outbreak in Palermo.  Its main character, the author of the book A Study in Abjection, nearly leaves fo
r home, but an accident with his luggage gives him an excuse to continue his vacation where, obsessed with a boy he thinks is named Tadzio, he dies of cholera.  FTP, name this 1912 novella by Thomas Mann.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Death in Venice}{\f0\fs22  (}{\i\f0\fs22 Der }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Tod in Venedig}{\f0\fs22 )
\par 
\par 4. He served as organist at the Church of the Madelaine for 20 years, and Marcel Proust studied his talents as a pianist, while Franz Liszt regarded him as the finest organist in the world.  Composer of such works as }{\i\f0\fs22 Omphale's Spinning Wheel}
{\f0\fs22  and }{\i\f0\fs22 The Yellow Princess}{\f0\fs22 , his opera }{\i\f0\fs22 Samson and Delilah}{\f0\fs22  initially was rejected in Paris because it portrayed biblical characters.  FTP, name this composer of }{\i\f0\fs22 Danse Macabre}{\f0\fs22 
 and }{\i\f0\fs22 Carnival of the Animals}{\f0\fs22 .
\par \tab Answer: (Charles-) Camille }{\f0\fs22\ul Saint-Sa\lquote ns}{\f0\fs22  (san-sahns)
\par 
\par 5. An 1862 earthquake 
expanded this lake by 77 square miles, creating Proval Bay near the delta of the Selanga River.  Though only thirty miles wide on average, its shoreline runs for 1300 miles, and one of the mountains that surrounds it features the mouth of the Lena River. 
 FTP, name this lake, home to about 20% of the freshwater on Earth, which is the deepest lake in the world. \tab 
\par \tab Answer: Lake }{\f0\fs22\ul Baikal}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 6. The first known pair of these molecules were two different types of tartaric acid whose behavior was explained in 1844 by 
Louis Pasteur. 30 years later, van't Hoff and le Bel deduced that the atoms of fluorochlorobromomethane must be arranged in a tetrahedron to explain the different "handedness" of its two forms, which also fall in this category. FTP, give the term for mole
cules which are mirror images of each other.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul enantiomer}{\f0\fs22 s 
\par 
\par 7. He probably died as a result of slowly being poisoned with herbal medicines prescribed by a vengeful physician named Roger. The red marks that appeared on his chest when he suddenly dr
opped dead after admitting to a brief sexual affair with a parishioner could probably be attributed the poison, but witnesses claimed that the marks formed the shape of a letter "A." FTP, name this repentant reverend who commits adultery with Hester Prynn
e in }{\i\f0\fs22 The Scarlet Letter}{\f0\fs22 .
\par \tab Answer: Reverend Arthur }{\f0\fs22\ul Dimmesdale}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 8. Created by Brok and Eitri, it was considered the hallowed symbol of the marriage bond up until modern times in Northern Europe.  According to legend,its owners sons, Magni and Modi, will inher
it it when its owner dies, but only Magni has enough strength to even lift it.  Because it is "The Crusher", "the thing that smashes", it is mortally feared by rock and frost giant alike.  For 10 points, what is this fabulous weapon which emits lightning 
bolts when thrown and always magically returns to its owner, Thor?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Mjollnir}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 9. It was a stronghold located at the bottom of a bowl-shaped river valley, about 10 miles long. The only effective way into the stronghold was through air, which proved 
disastrous for General Christian de Castries when enemy anti aircraft fire prevented resupply. FTP, name this village in northwestern Vietnam, the location of a pivotal 1954 battle between the French and Vietnamese that led to the eventual separation into
 North and South Vietnam.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Dien Bien Phu}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. It identifies three basic types of the titular phenomenon.   Altruistic, which results from excessive concern for the social good, appears in Japan and among the Inuit.  Egoistic is characterized by com
plete isolation from others. Anomic, which is common in modern societies, results from an inability to accept limitation that develops from continual demand for progress.  An example is stockbrokers killing themselves after market crashes.  All of these t
ypes are analyzed in FTP this 1897 book by Emile Durkheim.
\par \tab Answer: (}{\i\f0\fs22 Le}{\f0\fs22 ) }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Suicide}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 11. It was the principal large-scale expression of discontent with Reformation legislation of Henry VIII.  Causes of the uprising were opposition to Cromwell's attempts to ext
end government control in the north of England, agrarian enclosure, and the dissolution of the monasteries.  Rebels under Robert Aske and Thomas Darcy seized Lincoln and York in October of 1536, but the movement was quashed and its leaders executed by the
 beginning of the following year.  FTP name this revolt, whose participants were identified by the wearing of badges commemorating the five wounds of Christ.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Pilgrimage of Grace}{\f0\fs22 
\par   
\par 12. A mixture of nitric esters of this compound is the main ingred
ient of gunpowder.  A polymer of glucose, it contains beta-glucosidic bonds much stronger than the alpha bonds found in starch.  The strong bonds mean this molecule cannot be digested without bacterial help, which is lacking in humans. For ten points, nam
e this molecule, the primary component of plant cell walls.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul cellulose}{\f0\fs22  
\par   
\par 13. The author's introduction contains the ominous statement that the reader may be so corrupted by its contents that he risks sending his soul to Hell, a warning later quo
ted by T.S. Eliot in the Waste Land. After the publication of its second edition, the French Minister of Justice confiscated this book, because it contained poems, such as the "Litanies of Satan," that the government considered blasphemous and obscene. FT
P, name this collection of poems by Charles Baudelaire.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f0\fs22 The }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Flowers of Evil}{\f0\fs22  or }{\i\f0\fs22 Les }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Fleurs du Mal}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 14. Characterized by nigrostriatal degeneration, the presence of the enzymes MAO-B and COMT worsen its effects.  Symptoms such as blepharospasm, or fo
rced eyelid closure and bradykinesia, a difficulty in starting and stopping motions, are usually improved with dopamine-elevating drugs such as L-dopa.  For ten points, name this disease which probably afflicts the Pope and Muhammad Ali. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Parkinson}{\f0\fs22 's disease 
\par   
\par 15. Educated as a surgeon at Edinburgh, he served as a medical officer on a vessel in the East Indian trade.  After becoming an expert on the animal and plant life of Sumatra, he gained the backing of the African Association for geographica
l investigations.  On the first, he was held captive by an Arab chief for four months; on the second, an 1812 government inquiry concluded, he was attacked near Segou on the Niger and drowned, and may have been eaten by crocodiles.  FTP name this Scottish
 explorer who charted the course of the Niger.
\par \tab Answer:  Mungo }{\f0\fs22\ul Park}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. His misfortunes include the destruction of his house at Back Bay and the disintegration of his daughter Irene's plans for marriage.  However, unlike his business partner, he maintains 
his moral integrity, and his family's attitude towards wealth contrasts with that of the Coreys, one of whom marries his daughter Penelope.  FTP, name this character whose "rise" is chronicled in the best-known novel of William Dean Howells.
\par \tab Answer: Silas }{\f0\fs22\ul Lapham}{\f0\fs22  (accept }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Rise of Silas Lapham}{\f0\fs22  after glaring at player)
\par 
\par 17. He always carried with him a copy of Lenin's }{\i\f0\fs22 Problems of Leninism}{\f0\fs22 , and viewed it as a blueprint for world domination, similar to }{\i\f0\fs22 Mein Kampf}{\f0\fs22 .  Nephew of Secretary of State Robert Lansing, he
 served as legal counsel to the American delegation to the Versailles Conference and later served as chief negotiator of the peace treaty with Japan.  As secretary of state, he concluded the Austrian State Treaty despite Soviet opposition, and later decla
red, "If you are scared to go to the brink, you are lost," thus coining the term "brinkmanship."  FTP, name this secretary of state, who served under Eisenhower from 1953 to 1959.
\par \tab Answer: John Foster }{\f0\fs22\ul Dulles}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 18. Originally covered with red pigment, it has 
no eyes, feet, or face, but it has extremely thin arms and several intricate rows of parallel curls for hair.  Presently on display in the Natural History Museum of Vienna, it was unearthed in 1908 at the Austrian Aurignacian-culture site for which it is 
named.  With the typically fecund features of oversized belly, breast, and buttocks-for 10 points-what is the name of this most famous, nearly 30,000-year-old Venus figurine? 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Willendorf Venus
\par }{\f0\fs22 
\par 19. Since 0.024 Angstroms is small compared to visibl
e wavelengths, this phenomenon is hard to observe with visible light.  But, that number, equal to Planck's constant divided by the product of the speed of light and the electron mass, lies in the X-rays, allowing a wavelength shift to be observed when X-r
ays strike electrons in, FTP, what effect, whose 1922 discovery corroborated the particle nature of light and won its namesake a Nobel Prize? 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Compton}{\f0\fs22  effect or scattering (accept "Compton wavelength" early)  
\par     
\par 20. His first play, }{\i\f0\fs22 Farther Off from Heaven}{\f0\fs22 , was produced with the help of Tennessee Williams. Ten years later it was revised for Broadway as }{\i\f0\fs22 The Dark at the Top of the Stairs}{\f0\fs22 
. He was one of the first American dramatists to deal with the quality of life in the small towns in the Midwest, and he achieved notable success throughout the 1950s. FTP name this American playwright of }{\i\f0\fs22 Come Back, Little Sheba}{\f0\fs22 , }
{\i\f0\fs22 Bus Stop}{\f0\fs22 , and }{\i\f0\fs22 Picnic}{\f0\fs22 , for which he won a Pulitzer Prize.
\par  \tab Answer: William }{\f0\fs22\ul Inge}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par T1. This rock usually has a porphyritic structure, with large crystals of olivine, augite, or feldspar embedded in a fine crystalline groundmass.  Its name, one of the oldest of any rock names, comes from an Ethiopian word referring to a rock rich in iron
 and magnesium. FTP, name this rock found in South America's Paran Basin and India's Deccan Plateau that comprises most of the Earth's oceanic crust. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul basalt}{\f0\fs22 
\par   
\par T2. Born with the surname of Rothschild, this writer served as drama critic for the magazine }{\i\f0\fs22 Vanity Fair}{\f0\fs22  and, under the pen name of "A Constant Reader," as a book reviewer for the }{\i\f0\fs22 New Yorker}{\f0\fs22 
.  The author of the short stories }{\i\f0\fs22 Big Blonde and The Custard Heart}{\f0\fs22 , as well as the poetry collection }{\i\f0\fs22 Enough Rope}{\f0\fs22 , she is best known for her insults, par
ticularly her "How can they tell?" quip about the death of Calvin Coolidge.  For 10 points-- name this member of the Algonquin Round Table. 
\par \tab Answer: Dorothy }{\f0\fs22\ul Parker}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par T3. Almost unchanged since the Ordovician, these animals have a cartilaginous braincase an
d a large notochord.  Distinguished from the Gnathostomata by their lack of jaws, the mouth contains a raspy tongue which draws blood after the animal's sucker attaches itself to a host.  For ten points,identify this close relative of the hagfishes, one o
f the most primitive chordates. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul lamprey}{\f0\fs22  
\par \page }{\b\f0\fs22 1999 ACF Nationals
\par Boni by Berkeley}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 1. Given a description, identify the works by James Baldwin, for 10 points apiece.
\par 1. In this 1963 collection of essays, Baldwin examines contemporary race relations, and predicts that violence will break out unless white America radically chances its attitudes and policies towards blacks.
\par \tab Answer:   }{\i\f0\fs22 The }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Fire Next Time}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2.  This 1956 novella tells of an expatriate American who is torn between his love for his fiancee Hella and the title character, a gay bartender.  Unable to resolve the conflict over his sexuality, the hero loses both of his lovers.
\par \tab Answer:   }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Giovanni's Room}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. Arguably Baldwin's best play, this 1964 drama describes the racially-motivated murder of a black man, Richard Henry, and his killer's subsequent acquittal by an all-white jury.
\par \tab Answer:   }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Blues for Mister Charlie}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 2. Identify the following space probes.  You will get 5 points if you can identify the mission (for instance, Mariner) and another five if you give the correct number.  
\par 1. In 1976, this US probe landed on Mars, becoming the first American landing on another planet.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Viking}{\f0\fs22  }{\f0\fs22\ul 1}{\f0\fs22   
\par 2. In 1966, this Soviet probe crashlanded but in the process became the first human-made object to land on another planet.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Venera}{\f0\fs22  }{\f0\fs22\ul III}{\f0\fs22  
\par 3. Launched in 1972, this US space probe was the first to flyby Jupiter and will be one of the first human-made objects to leave the solar system.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Pioneer}{\f0\fs22  }{\f0\fs22\ul 10}{\f0\fs22  
\par  
\par 3. Answer the following about events leading up to the American Revolutionary War, ten points each.
\par 1. Since the Sugar Act would not gather a large amount of revenue, it was supplemented in 1765 by this act, which levied a direct tax on all newspapers printed in the colonies and on most commercial and legal documents used in business. For five, name it.

\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Stamp}{\f0\fs22  Act
\par 2. Speaking out against the Townshend Act of 1767 was this person from Pennsylvania, who distinguished between taxes levied to regulate trade and those intended to raise revenue in his widely read "Letters of a Farmer in Pennsylvania".
\par \tab Answer: John }{\f0\fs22\ul Dickinson}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. For fifteen, it was a British custom ship patrolling the waters near Providence, Rhode Island, but was set afire by American colonists to protest British antismuggling policy
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Gaspee}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 4. Identify the following characters from Bizet's opera }{\i\f0\fs22 Carmen}{\f0\fs22 .
\par 1. For five, he is seduced by Carmen and rejects his soldier sensibilities in going with Carmen and her gypsy friends on a smuggling operation.
\par \tab Answer: Don }{\f0\fs22\ul Jose}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. For ten, he is the dashing bullfighter that Carmen falls in love with after Don Jose leaves for Seville.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Escamillo}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. For fifteen, she is Don Jose's former love, a gentle peasant girl that still loves him.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Micaela}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 5. No packet from Berkeley would be complete without a question about drugs and its aftereffects. Answer the following about Berkeley's favorite pasttime, ten points each.  
\par 1. It is any of a diverse group of drugs used to relieve pain, and includes nonnarcotics such as the salicylates, narcotics such as morphine, and synthetics like Demerol. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul analgesic}{\f0\fs22 s 
\par 2. Popularly known as the DTs, it is the hallucinatory episodes that may occur during withdrawal from chronic alcoholism. For five points each word, what does DT stand for?  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Delirium tremens}{\f0\fs22  
\par 3. It is the degeneration of tissue in an organ resulting in fibrosis, 
\par with nodule and scar formation. The term is most often used in relation to the liver. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul cirrhosis}{\f0\fs22  
\par  
\par 6. Answer the following about game theory, ten points each. Note: none of the answers are the Prisoner's Dilemma.  
\par 1. This concept describes circumstances in which one person can only win at the expense of another, or vice versa. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul zero-sum}{\f0\fs22  
\par 2. Two contestants face off.  If neither yields, both suffer maximally. If one yields they suffer, while the other profits maximally.  If both yield, they both get small profits.  It describes political advertising and some James Dean movies. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul chicken}{\f0\fs22  
\par 3. This example describes how the rational pursuit of individual advantage leads to suboptimal solutions. A group of peasants have access to a grazing area, but if each peasants' cattle graze continually, the area will be exhausted and everybody loses. 

\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul tragedy of the commons}{\f0\fs22  
\par  
\par 7. Identify the following about shipwrecks that inspired notable works of literature, for ten points apiece.
\par 1. Daniel Defoe's }{\i\f0\fs22 Robinson Crusoe}{\f0\fs22  is thought to have been inspired by the adventures of this Scottish mariner, who survived five years on an uninhabited island in the South Atlantic in the early 1700s.
\par \tab Answer:   Alexander }{\f0\fs22\ul Selkirk}{\f0\fs22  
\par 2. This ship ran aground near Kent in 1875, killing five Franciscan nuns and inspiring an English Jesuit priest to make his return to literature.
\par \tab Answer:   The (Wreck of the) }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Deutschland}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. Named for the Greek god of the evening star, this ship's sinking inspired one of the best-known ballads by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
\par \tab Answer: The (wreck of the) }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Hesperus}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 8. Identify the following books by British empiricist philosophers, FTP each:
\par 1. The work written by David Hume in 1748 is a revision of the first section of "A Treatise of Human Nature" and includes essay "On Miracles."
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f0\fs22 An }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. John Locke's most famous work of political philosophy, written in 1690, which describes government as a trust responsible for securing its citizens'life, liberty, and property.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Two Treatises of Government}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. The 1713 book by George Berkeley argued against material substance, but unlike his previous works avoided technicalities; it is couched as a dialogue between two classical characters.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 9. Identify the following post-World War II Middle Eastern treaty organizations, on a 5-15-10 basis:
\par 1. 5:  The confederation initially formed in Cairo in March 1945 by Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Transjordan, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen for the purpose of securing Arab unity.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Arab League}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. 15:  This 1955 agreement signed by Turkey, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, and Great Britain at the urging of the United States was designed to prevent Soviet expansion into the Middle East.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Baghdad}{\f0\fs22  Pact (prompt for original name on "Cento" or "Central Treaty Organization")
\par 3. 10:  After Iraq withdrew from the Baghdad Pact in 1959, its headquarters moved to Ankara and its name was changed.  Give the post-1959 name of the organization.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Cento}{\f0\fs22  or }{\f0\fs22\ul Central Treaty Organization}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 10. For 15 points apiece-- identify these early picaresque novels.
\par 1.The prototype of the entire genre, this anonymous 1554 Spanish novel tells of a beggar boy who is abused by seven successive masters, but becomes rich after cheating and robbing from nearly everybody in sight.
\par \tab Answer:   }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Lazarillo de Tormes}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2.  Also considered a prototype for the German Bildungsroman, this 1688 novel about a bumbling soldier in the Thirty Years' War was written by Hans Grimmelshausen.
\par \tab Answer:   }{\i\f0\fs22 The Adventures of}{\f0\fs22  (}{\i\f0\fs22 Der abemteuerliche}{\f0\fs22 ) }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Simplicissimus}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 11. Answer the following about Tamerlane, for the 10 points each:
\par 1. Give any year during which he lived.
\par \tab Answer: (Accept any year from }{\f0\fs22\ul 1336 to 1405}{\f0\fs22 )
\par 2. Name the capital of his empire.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Samarkand}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. Identify the region, consisting of the land between the Oxus and Jaxartes rivers, that he conquered in the 1360s and to which he returned near the end of his life to prepare for a campaign against China.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Transoxiana}{\f0\fs22  
\par 
\par 12. One result of quantum field theory is that for any interaction, the combined operation known as CPT is an exact symmetry.  Answer these questions about CPT FTSNOP.
\par 1. For five points give one, and for ten all three operations abbreviated by CPT.  
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul charge}{\f0\fs22  conjugation, }{\f0\fs22\ul parity}{\f0\fs22 , }{\f0\fs22\ul time}{\f0\fs22  reversal 
\par 2. In 1956, two Chinese-born physicists theorized that parity was not conserved and hence not symmetric.  For ten, name either of the two physicists that won the Nobel Prize for this work.  
\par \tab Answer: Dr. Tsung-Dao }{\f0\fs22\ul Lee}{\f0\fs22  and Dr. Chen Ning }{\f0\fs22\ul Yang}{\f0\fs22  
\par 3. A 1964 experiment found evidence that the operational product CP is violated and hence that time reversal is not symmetric.  For ten, name either of the two Princeton physicists involved in the 1964 experiment. 
\par \tab Answer: James }{\f0\fs22\ul Cronin}{\f0\fs22  and Val }{\f0\fs22\ul Fitch}{\f0\fs22  
\par   
\par 13. Answer the following about Impressionist painters, ten points each.
\par 1. This French-born artist of English parentage painted }{\i\f0\fs22 Floods at Marly}{\f0\fs22  in 1876.
\par \tab Answer: Alfred }{\f0\fs22\ul Sisley}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. This artist, whose career was cut short by his death in the Franco-Prussian War, was known for his works of figures out-of-doors such as 1867's }{\i\f0\fs22 The Artist's Family}{\f0\fs22 .
\par \tab Answer: Frederic }{\f0\fs22\ul Bazille}{\f0\fs22 
\par This painter of family scenes such as }{\i\f0\fs22 The Cradle}{\f0\fs22  influenced her brother-in-law Manet to take up }{\i\f0\fs22 plein air}{\f0\fs22  painting.
\par \tab Answer: Berthe }{\f0\fs22\ul Morisot}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 14. Answer these questions about the Simpsons FTP each.
\par 1. This neer-do-well and nephew to a noted politician has a thing about the proper pronunciation of "chowder."
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul F}{\f0\fs22 reddy }{\f0\fs22\ul Quimby}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. This doll created by Lisa is doomed by the introduction of "Malibu Stacy Plus," the same old doll plus a new hat.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Lisa Lionheart}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. This is Apu's entry in the Springfield Film Festival.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f0\fs22\ul Bright Lights, Beef Jerky}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 15. The 1948 1st edition Benet's devotes three pages to an exposition of Joyce's Ulysses.  Answer these questions about that classic of modernism FTSNOP.
\par 1. 5:  This Jewish character corresponds to Ulysses in the Homeric epic.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Leopold}{\f0\fs22  or }{\f0\fs22\ul Bloom}{\f0\fs22  
\par 2. 10:  Stephen Dedalus lives with an English student named Haines and this sardonic Irish medical student.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Buck}{\f0\fs22  or }{\f0\fs22\ul Mulligan}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. 15:  This is the name of Molly Bloom's lover who sends her a letter in Episode 4.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Blazes}{\f0\fs22  or }{\f0\fs22\ul Boylan}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 16. Identify the following enzymes, FTP each:    
\par 1. This enzyme, found in saliva, pancreatic juices, and intestinal juices, converts starch and glycogen into maltose. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul amylase}{\f0\fs22  
\par 2. The enzyme manufactured in the pancreas reduces proteins such as casein and hemoglobin in the small intestine, helping finish the work done by pepsin in the stomach.  This enzyme also activates the enzyme carboxypeptidase. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul trypsin}{\f0\fs22   
\par 3. The plant enzyme involved in the first step of the Calvin cycle that is the most abundant protein on Earth. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul rubisco}{\f0\fs22  or }{\f0\fs22\ul RuBP carboxylase}{\f0\fs22  
\par   
\par 17. Answer the following about D-Day.
\par 1. First, this person was the German Commander of he West. As he had 2000 miles of coast to defend, he did not believe that a landing could be prevented and thus kept a powerful mobile reserve.
\par \tab Answer: Gerd von }{\f0\fs22\ul Rundstedt}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. This commander of two German armies in north-west France disagreed with von Rundstedt. When the Normandy invasion took place, he was in Berlin and twice begged Hitler to make peace.
\par \tab Answer: Erwin }{\f0\fs22\ul Rommel}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. Most of the German troops were kept at this location, where von Rundstedt expected the main attack to take place.
\par \tab Answer: Pas de }{\f0\fs22\ul Calais}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 18. Answer the following about probability and statistics for the stated number of points. 
\par 1. (5 points) This is the term for the probability of event B occuring 
\par given that event A has occured. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul conditional}{\f0\fs22  probability 
\par 2. (15 points) What theorem states, in one form, that the probability of A given B is the product of the probability of A and the probability of B given A divided by the probability of B. 
\par \tab Answer }{\f0\fs22\ul Bayes'}{\f0\fs22  theorem  
\par 3. (10 points) A box contains two coins, one has two heads and the other is normal.  A coin is selected and one side is seen to be heads.  What is the conditional probability that the other side is heads.  You have ten seconds. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul two-thirds}{\f0\fs22  (the answer is not 0.5, despite how much 
\par people may complain) 
\par 
\par 19. Answer these questions about Renaissance Italy FTP each.
\par 1. This French king invaded Italy in pursuit of a claim to the throne of Naples in 1494.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Charles}{\f0\fs22  }{\f0\fs22\ul VIII}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. This Dominican friar took control of Florence following the defeat of the Medicis by Charles VIII.
\par \tab Answer:  Girolamo }{\f0\fs22\ul Savonarola}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. This Borgia pope contrived the overthrow of Savonarola in 1498.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f0\fs22\ul Alexander}{\f0\fs22  }{\f0\fs22\ul VI}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par 20. Identify the following Japanese film directors, none of whom are Akira Kurosawa, for 15 points each:
\par 1. His films include }{\i\f0\fs22 Floating Weeds}{\f0\fs22 , }{\i\f0\fs22 Autumn Afternoon}{\f0\fs22 , and }{\i\f0\fs22 Equinox Flower}{\f0\fs22 . His most famous film }{\i\f0\fs22 Tokyo Story}{\f0\fs22  focuses on a elderly couple
 who visit their ungrateful children. He was so influential in establishing a national style for Japanese filmmakers that he is sometimes referred to as "the D.W. Griffith of Japan." 
\par \tab Answer: Yasujiro }{\f0\fs22\ul Ozu}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. This director dramatically altered Japanese filmmaking by aggressively challenging censorship restrictions with his erotic film }{\i\f0\fs22 In the Realm of the Senses}{\f0\fs22 
, which featured the most sexually explicit love scenes ever filmed in Japan at the time.  His films are responses to actual events or problems in Japanese society, as evidenced in }{\i\f0\fs22 Violence at High Noon}{\f0\fs22  and }{\i\f0\fs22 
Death by Hanging}{\f0\fs22 .  His masterpiece came with 1971's }{\i\f0\fs22 The Ceremony}{\f0\fs22 .
\par \tab Answer: Nagisa }{\f0\fs22\ul Oshima}{\f0\fs22 
\par 
\par Answer the following about the Parnassian school of poetry.
\par 1. This poet, associated with the early symbolists, is noted for the grace and delicacy of his lyrics.  His books include }{\i\f0\fs22 Po\u143\'8fmes saturniens}{\f0\fs22 ; }{\i\f0\fs22 F\u144\'90tes galantes}{\f0\fs22 ; and }{\i\f0\fs22 Sagesse}{
\f0\fs22 , which contains poems about the author's conversion to Roman Catholicism.
\par \tab Answer: Paul }{\f0\fs22\ul Verlaine}{\f0\fs22 
\par 2. This Frenchman's poems include }{\i\f0\fs22 Stances et po\u143\'8fmes}{\f0\fs22 ; }{\i\f0\fs22 Les Solitudes}{\f0\fs22 ; and }{\i\f0\fs22 La Justice}{\f0\fs22 ; he is best remembered for winning the first Nobel Prize in literature.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Sully-Prudhomme}{\f0\fs22 
\par 3. The Parnassians were influenced by this French poet and novelist, who emphasized the doctrine of "Art for Art's Sake."
\par \tab Answer: Theophile }{\f0\fs22\ul Gautier}{\f0\fs22  
\par 
\par Answer the following about managing the Internet, fifteen points each.  
\par Like all things in Computer Science, the answers are acronyms, so you'll get five points if you can answer from the letters. 
\par 1. (15 points) Currently, there are about two thousand of these documents that serve as specifications for how such things as email, hypertext, and TCP/IP work. The name itself is misleading, as some are industry standards.  
\par    (5 points) RFC 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Request For Comments}{\f0\fs22  
\par 2. (15 points) The subsidiary working groups of this organization issue most RFC's.  It is closely affiliated with IESG, or the Internet Engineering Steering Group and IAB, the Internet Architecture Board.  
\par    (5 points) IETF 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f0\fs22\ul Internet Engineering Task Force}{\f0\fs22 
\par }}