{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\sl240 
\f20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sl240 \f20\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext1 Word4095Null;}{\s2 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title Boston University}{\author Humanities Division}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj 
\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1 \pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Boston University (Mike Hoey-Lukakis and Matt Bruce)\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
1.  First prepared by adding glycerol to a mixture of sulfuric and nitric acids, it's a liquid at room temperature but freezes easily. It is even more unstable in solid form, but, when mixed with a porous inert substance such as charcoal or kieselguhr its 
stability greatly increases, a property discoverd by Alfred Nobel. For ten points, name this chemical also used to ease cardiac pain. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul nitroglycerin}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul glyceryl trinitrate}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept }{\f21\fs18\ul dynamite}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
2. Produced at the peak of the Peloponnesian War, it is the only one of the author's major works that makes no reference at all to contemporary political events.  In it, Euelpides [yoo-EL-pi-dees] and Pisthereus [pis-THEE-ri-us] leave Athens because they a
re disgusted with its long war, corrupt politicians and backlogged courts.  After finding the mythical king Tereus, they form a pact with the title animals to build a new city ruled by 
Makedo [mu-KAY-do].  For 10 points name this 414 BCE Aristophanes comedy that features Cloud-Cuckoo-Land.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Birds}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ornithes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
3.  Its boundaries are at roughly 12 degrees West to 4 1/2 degrees East longitude, and 25 degrees North to 11 degrees North latitude.  A French colony until 1960, this country contains the Bakoye [ba-KOY-ay], Bani, Diaka [dee-AH-ka] and Niger rivers, as we
ll as the Iforas mountains in the northeast.  For 10 points, name this country, bordered by Senegal, Niger, Burkina Faso, Cote D'Ivoire, Guinea, Mauritania, and Algeria, home to the city of Timbuktu.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Mali}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 4.  This Alabama native helped found the American Civil Liberties Union and publicly supported the NAACP.  The Brooklyn }{\i\f21\fs18 Eagle}{\f21\fs18 
 attacked this author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Midstream}{\f21\fs18  for being a socialist, which prompted the response:  "Oh, ridiculous Brooklyn }{\i\f21\fs18 Eagle}{\f21\fs18 
! Socially blind and deaf, it defends an intolerable system, a system that is the cause of much of the physical blindness and deafness which we are trying to prevent."  For 10 points, name this Radcliffe-educated author of }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Story of My Life}{\f21\fs18  and pupil of Anne Sullivan.\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Helen }{\f21\fs18\ul Keller}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
5.  On a cellular level, they differ from the other two types in that they are long, thin, mononuclear and pointed at both ends. Found in the intestines and bladder, as well as the walls of arteries and veins, they are usually controlled by the autonomic n
ervous system.  For 10 points, name these muscles that differ from skeletal or cardiac muscles in that they are not striated.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul smooth}{\f21\fs18  muscles  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul visceral}{\f21\fs18  muscles)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
6.  Two of his biggest fears are of heights, because he has vertigo; and of the younger generation, which he believes will push him out of a job the way he pushed his elders of their own jobs.  In spite of his fears, Hilda convinces him to climb to the top
 of his house and try to build a castle in the air, and he ends up falling to his death.  For 10 points, identify this protagonist of Ibsen's }{\i\f21\fs18 The Master Builder}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Halvard }{\f21\fs18\ul Solness}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on the Master Builder) \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 7.  George Eliot translated this 19th century philosopher-anthropologist's most important work, }{\i\f21\fs18 Das Wesen des Christentums}{\f21\fs18 
, into English, receiving a commission of two shillings per page and publishing it as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Essence of Christianity}{\f21\fs18 
 in 1854.  Eliot was more taken with his impassioned descriptions of self-sacrificing, sacred, self-sufficing and spontaneous love than with his humanism.  For 10 points, who was this thinker, a combination of whose dialectical upstaging of Hegel and whose
 failure to properly resolve self-consciousness, and its religious projections, into fundamental social and economic forces Karl Marx criticized in a series of }{\i\f21\fs18 Theses}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
 \tab Answer:  Ludwig Andreas }{\f21\fs18\ul Feuerbach}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 
8.  Despite a black-body temperature of 60 degrees Kelvin, its atmosphere is active, exhibiting the fastest winds in the solar system.  With a color arising from methane absorption, it is also notable for its extremely clumpy ring system discovered in 1989
 and a satellite in a retrograde orbit.  For 10 points, name this gas giant whose moons include Proteus, Nereid, and Triton. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Neptune}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 9. Their name means \ldblquote Shepherd Kings\rdblquote 
 in Greek, and is probably a version of a local term for foreign rulers, and not an entire nation.  Coming to power around 1674 BCE, they reigned for over a century, introducing the horse and chariot into Egypt.  It has 
been suggested that they had control of Egypt at the time of the Biblical story of Joseph.  For 10 points\emdash what ancient charioteers brought an end to the Middle Kingdom?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Hyksos}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 10. \ldblquote 
Sightless, unless/The eyes reappear/As the perpetual star/Multifoliate rose/Of death's twilight kingdom/The hope only/Of prickly men./Here we go round the prickly pear/Prickly pear prickly pear/Here we go round the prickly pear/At five o'clock in the 
morning.\rdblquote   These lines come from, for 10 points, what T.S. Eliot poem, subtitled "A Penny for the Old Guy," which predicts the end of the world, "Not with a bang but with a whimper"?\par 
\tab Answer:   \ldblquote The }{\f21\fs18\ul Hollow Men}{\f21\fs18 \rdblquote \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
11.  According to Hesiod t
hey were three in number, and their names meant "Thunder", "Lightning", and "Bright".  Sons of Gaia and Uranus, they were imprisoned in Tartarus when the Titan Kronos came to power.  They were more than willing, therefore, to aid Zeus when he sought to ove
rthrow his father Kronos.  Zeus then commissioned them to build the abode of the gods on Olympus.  They met their own end by the hand of Apollo, who was angry that Zeus had killed his son Asklepios with a thunderbolt that had been forged by them.  For 10 p
oints, who were these blacksmiths to the gods, whose collective name meant "Round-eye"?\par 
 \tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Cyclopes}{\f21\fs18  (singular, }{\f21\fs18\ul Cyclops}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
12. The Ludlovian and Wenlockian ages are subdivisions of this period.  In the oceans, trilobites flourished while its final years saw the first jawed fish and vascular plants develop. Arachnid and centipede fossils show that organic life first emerged fro
m the sea in the last stages of, for 10 points, which Paleozoic period which lasted from 440 to 410 million years ago and preceded the Devonian.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Silurian}{\f21\fs18  Period\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
13. This character is introduced to us as a "tall, strong girl," who consoles her brother Emil when his kitten is stuck on a telegraph pole, then fetches her friend Carl Linstrum to rescue the poor pussy.  By the end of the book, she, now a middle-aged wom
an, murmurs to Carl, "I am tired.  I have been very lonely, Carl."  Meanwhile she runs a Nebraska farm spread despite the resentment of her brothers, Lou and Oscar.  For 10 points name this heroine of the Willa Cather novel }{\i\f21\fs18 O Pioneers!}{
\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Alexandra Bergson}{\f21\fs18   (accept either part)\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 14.  He sent two envoys to Pope Zacharias with the question, \ldblquote Is it wise to have kings who hold no power?\rdblquote   Zacharias replied, \ldblquote 
It is better to have a king able to govern.  I bid that you be crowned King of the Franks.\rdblquote   As such, Childeric III was deposed 
and this man anointed as king in 751.  FTP name this first Carolingian king, son of Charles Martel and father of Charlemagne.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Pepin III}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Pepin}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Short}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul P\'8epin}{\f21\fs18  le }{\f21\fs18\ul Bref}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
15. The Connie Francis record that was playing on KING-AM never skipped a beat during a 1965 earthquake, even though this building, where the studio was located, shook enough to spill water out of its toilet bowls.  First sketched by Edward Carlson on a co
ffee shop place mat in 1959, it cost only $4.5 million.  It was completed in December 1961 but it didn't open for another four months.  For 10 points, name this building built for the 1962 World's Fair, the most prominent feature of the Seattle skyline.
\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Space Needle}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 

16. Because he spent most of his career in a monastery in Antioch, and because he was so associated with Antiochene Christology, the Eastern Orthodox Church came to be popularly named for him.  He first became an activist in his opposition to the use of th
e term Theotokos, which led to his eventual censure at the 431 Council of Ephesus.  Of his writings, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Bazaar of Heracleides}{\f21\fs18  was only rediscovered in 1895, and he is chiefly remembered for the }{\i\f21\fs18 Counter Anathemas}{
\f21\fs18 , a respon
se to the twelve anathemas leveled against him by St. Cyril of Alexandria.  For 10 points, who was this 5th century heretic, who actually may not have promulgated the notion that there are two separate persons in the incarnate Christ, one divine and one hu
man?\par 
 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Nestorius }{\f21\fs18 (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Nestorianism}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 
17. In this stage, polar microtubules grow longer and push the spindle poles apart.  Simultaneously, kinetocore microtubules no longer fight each other as they move to opposing spindle poles, pulling attache
d chromosomes with them.  The separation of sister chromatids into independent daughter chromatids characterizes, for 10 points, what stage of mitosis preceded by metaphase.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul anaphase}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 
18. In 1947, his forces captured northeastern China for the Communists.  Mao rewarded him by making him co-commander of the Military Affairs Commission.  He was also given command of the China\rquote s People\rquote 
s Liberation Army; in 1969 he was officially named Mao's successor.  Two years later, however, he was so dissatisfie
d with Mao that he attempted a military coup.  It failed; and he died trying to escape China.  For 10 points, name this man whose plane crashed over Mongolia.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Lin}{\f21\fs18  Biao\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 19.  He incorporated Eastern ideas, free-jazz tendencies and boundless energy in such pieces as }{\i\f21\fs18 My Favorite Things}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Sun Ship}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Meditations}{
\f21\fs18 .  His first jazz recordings were with Dizzy Gillespie's band; he joined the original Miles Davis Quintet in 1955, but was booted because of heroin addiction two years later.  He then quit hero
in, had a religious awakening and rejoined Miles Davis in early 1958.  He would leave, however, to form his own quartet.  For 10 points\emdash name this tenor saxophonist whose masterwork was 1964's }{\i\f21\fs18 A Love Supreme}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  John }{\f21\fs18\ul Coltrane}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
20.  Oscar Wilde encouraged him to come to terms with his sexual identity, which he discovered in North Africa and which inspired such works as }{\i\f21\fs18 Strait is the Gate}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Fruits of the Earth}{\f21\fs18 
.  Born to Protestant parents, his friends Francis James and Paul Claudel tried to convert him to Catholicism, though his views on religion are apparent from his portrayal of a lustful clergyman in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Pastoral Symphony}{\f21\fs18 
. For 10 points what gay French novelist also wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 The Immoralist}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:   Andr\'8e }{\f21\fs18\ul Gide}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
T1. Thomas Percy descended from the Earls of Northumberland.  Thomas Wintour and John Wright, also members of the gentry, had both experienced first-hand the severity of the government.  Robert Catesby 
was the charismatic son of Sir William Catesby, a prominent Catholic leader who had been imprisoned in 1581 for harboring Father Edmund Campion, the English Superior of the Jesuits.  These four men conspired with Guy Fawkes in, for 10 points, what failed 1
605 attempt to blow up Parliament?\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Gunpowder}{\f21\fs18  Plot\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 T2. Some adherents still claim he invented miraculous devices, including a direct way to change gravity into electrical power. True or not, he made
 other discoveries, including the electrical coil that bears his name and the discovery of alternating-current power transmission.  The SI unit of magnetic flux density is named, for ten points, after what Croatian-American?\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Nikola }{\f21\fs18\ul Tesla}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
T3.  He was a collector of all kinds of rarities and oddities-unusual for a working class man of the 16th century.  In fact, he died as a result of an expedition to see a stranded whale in Zeeland!  Tragically, he never saw the beast, but was delighted by 
the spiny snout of the walrus he did see along the way.  He was not the pious German artisan he was supposed to be.  Intensely self-conscious and inordinately vain, he wasn't even full-blooded German: his father was Hungarian!  His first \ldblquote 
Self-portrait\rdblquote  has him draped in beautiful, long ringlets and two years later he painted himself as none other than Christ!  For 10 points, who was this artist of }{\i\f21\fs18 Life of the Virgin}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Melancholia I}{
\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Knight, Death and the Devil}{\f21\fs18 , a pioneer of the woodcut technique.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18  \tab Answer:  Albrecht }{\f21\fs18\ul Durer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

When this daughter of Nereus got married, every Greek god and goddess was invited to the wedding except for Eris, who got revenge by throwing out an apple with the message "To the Fairest" on it.  She tried to convince her son to live a long life after fai
ling to confer complete invincibility upon him, but her son decided he'd rather pursue glory.  For 10 points, name this wife of Peleus and mother of Achilles.\par 
 \tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Thetis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
Their name was coined by Samuel Johnson in his }{\i\f21\fs18 Lives of the Poets I}{\f21\fs18 
.  Their work is marked by very complicated and compressed meanings and the use of the conceit, an extended type of metaphor.  They were not formally part of a group but they unofficially include George Herbert, Henry Vaughan and Richard Crashaw.  For 10 p
oints what was this group of poets whose most famous members were Andrew Marvell and John Donne?\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Metaphysical}{\f21\fs18  School\par 
}\pard \tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
If untreated when making audiotapes, this effect causes signal distortion.  Arising from the inertia of magnetic domai
ns, it exists in all ferromagnetic samples and generates unusable heat in the material.  When a sample is placed in a varying magnetic field, the magnetization of the material lags the applied field.  For 10 points what ten-letter word describes this pheno
menon?\par 
}\pard \fi720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul hysteresis}{\f21\fs18   \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
This nine-letter word describes a set of symptoms that affects people who may experience delusions, hallucinations, regressive behavior and an inability to control impulses.  The symptoms include a breakdown of normal social 
functioning, losing touch with reality, and extreme personality changes.  For 10 points, what is this harbinger of mental illness, the more extreme counterpart to neurosis?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul psychosis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20\fs20 {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by Boston University}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 1.  Since ancient times it has been known that there are only 5 regular convex polyhedra.  Comfortable in that knowledge, answer the following.\par 
1. (5 points) The name of what ancient Greek is associated with these polyhedra?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Plato}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Platonic}{\f21\fs18  solids)\par 
2. (10 points)  One of the five Platonic solids is the cube.  Name the other 4.  You will earn 5 points for each correct pair.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tetrahedron}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul octahedron}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul dodecahedron}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul icosahedron}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(Note: To be perfectly clear, 0-1 correct earns 0 points, 2-3 earn 5 points, and 4 correct earn 10)\par 
3. (5 points) Now consider convex polyhedra with identical vertices, but allow more than one type of regular polygon to be used as a side.  The name of what Greek mathematician is given to these solids?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Archimedes }{\f21\fs18 (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Archimedean}{\f21\fs18  solids)\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 4. (10 points) For 10 points if exact, 5 if within 2, how many Archimedean solids exist.\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 13}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2. Answer these questions about Daniel Webster FTP each.\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 1.  In his second reply to the South Carolina senator and supporter of nullification Robert Hayne, Webster concluded with this famous nine-word phrase.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul \ldblquote Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!\rdblquote }{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  Although all the other members of William Henry Harrison\rquote s cabinet resigned, Webster remained under Tyler to negotiate this 1842 treaty.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Webster-Ashburton}{\f21\fs18  Treaty\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  Webster worked to enforce the Fugitive Slave Law as Secretary of State under this president, from whose cabinet he resigned shortly before his death.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Millard }{\f21\fs18\ul Fillmore}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18   \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  Name these Nikolai Gogol works, 5-10-5-10:\par 
1.  For 5 points, in this short story, a civil servant saves up his money for the title garment, only to have it stolen.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Overcoat}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Shinel\rquote \par 
}{\f21\fs18 2.  For 10 points, considered Gogol's second-greatest play after }{\i\f21\fs18 The Inspector General}{\f21\fs18 , it ends with the protagonist jumping out of window in order to escape the title event.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Marriage}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Zhenitba}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For 5 points, the tax consequences of a periodic government census of serfs are central to the plot of this novel.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Dead Souls}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Mertvye Dushi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  For 10 points, this 1832 collection of tales from the Ukranian countryside was Gogol's first literary success.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Evenings}{\i\f21\fs18  on a }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Farm}{\i\f21\fs18  near }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Dikanka}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Vechera na Khutorye bliz Dikanki\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  Name these bodies of water for 10 points each:\par 
1.  This arm of the Atlantic lies between Cape Palmas at the southeastern tip of Liberia, and Cape Lopez off Gabon.  It forms two bays, the Bight of Benin and the Bight of Bonny, or Biafra.\par 
 \tab Answer:  Gulf of }{\f21\fs18\ul Guinea\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  It is sheltered from the rest of the Mediterranean by the Balearic Islands.  Encompassing the gulf between Capes Tortosa and Nao, it is named for the major Spanish city on its shores.\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18  \tab Answer:  Gulf of }{\f21\fs18\ul Valencia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  The Leizhou Peninsula and the island of Hainan separate it from the South China Sea, and the Red River flows into it.\par 
 \tab Answer:  Gulf of }{\f21\fs18\ul Tonkin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 5.  Identify the following about Spain's other civil war, the "Carlist War" of the 1830s:\par 
1.  For 10 points, name the monarch whose death in 1833 led to the Carlist War.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ferdinand VII}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  For 15 points \emdash  this daughter of Ferdinand VII ascended to the throne despite the opposition of her uncle Don Carlos.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Isabella II}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For 5 points \emdash  name the royal house to which Ferdinand the Seventh belonged.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Borbon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
6.  This instrument bombards molecules with high-energy particles which ionize and fragment it.  A magnetic field deflects the resulting ions by an amount dependent on their mass-to-charge ratio.  Answer the following for 10 points each.\par 
1.  Name the instrument just described.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul mass spectrometer}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul spectrograph}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul spectroscope}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  Modified mass spectrometers can separate atomic isotopes.  During the Manhattan Project, this technique was used to isolate pure samples of which isotope found in trace amounts in normal ore? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul uranium-235}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 
3.  In this technique the components of a mixture are separated by their relative attraction for a stationary phase as a mobile phase, either liquid or gas, passes over them.  The components can then be identifed using mass spectrometry. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul chromatography\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 7.  In a 1997 joint resolution, the legislature of Alabama designated Monroe County as that state's literary capital because so many famous authors had lived there at one time or another.\par 
1.  For 10 points, name the author who depicted Monroe and Macomb County in her first novel.\par 
     \tab Answer:    Harper }{\f21\fs18\ul Lee}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  For 15 points name the Monroe County native who wrote such novels as }{\i\f21\fs18 Crazy in Alabama}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:   Mark }{\f21\fs18\ul Childress}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For 5 points name the Monroe County native who created such literary places as Skully's Landing, a friend of Harper Lee's on whom a character in }{\i\f21\fs18 To Kill A Mockingbird}{\f21\fs18  was supposedly based.\par 
\tab Answer:   Truman }{\f21\fs18\ul Capote}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
8.  Name each of the following British linguistic philosophers for 10 points\par 
apiece.\par 
1.  His }{\i\f21\fs18 An Inquiry into Meaning and Truth}{\f21\fs18 , published in 1940, is an empirical approach to extending his realism to universals.\par 
 \tab Answer:  Bertrand }{\f21\fs18\ul Russell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  His }{\i\f21\fs18 Language, Truth and Logic}{\f21\fs18  was the first Logical Positivist work to be written in English.\par 
 \tab Answer:  Alfred Jules }{\f21\fs18\ul Ayer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  His 1949 }{\i\f21\fs18 Concept of Mind}{\f21\fs18  is a sustained attack on the Cartesian philosophy of mind, or dogma of "ghost in the machine".  With it he did a great deal to lay the groundwork for late developments such as functionalism.\par 
 \tab Answer:  Gilbert }{\f21\fs18\ul Ryle}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
9. They had their greatest influence in March of 193, when they assassinated the reigning emperor and sold the throne to the highest bidder.  For 10 points each:\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 1.  Name this elite corps of Roman imperial bodyguards.\par 
\tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Praetorian}{\f21\fs18  Guard\par 
2.  What elderly former Prefect of Rome, who had only succeeded Commodus eleven weeks before, did the praetorians kill?\tab \par 
\tab Answer:  Publius Helvius }{\f21\fs18\ul Pertinax}{\f21\fs18 \par 

3.  A senator named Didius Julianus bribed each Praetorian with 25,000 sesterces and was named emperor.  The provinces each declared their own challengers.  What commander of the Danube legions, originally from Leptis Magna, defeated his rivals and became 
undisputed emperor in 197?\par 
\tab Answer:  Lucius }{\f21\fs18\ul Septimius Severus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 10. "She took me to her elfin grot/And there she gazed and sighed deep,/And there I shut her wild, sad eyes /So kissed to sleep."\par 
1.  For 10 points what poem contains this stanza?\par 
\tab Answer:   "La }{\f21\fs18\ul Belle Dame Sans Merci}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
2.  For 5 points who wrote "La Belle Dame Sans Merci"? \par 
\tab Answer:   John }{\f21\fs18\ul Keats\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 3.  For 15 points what word for an undead creature ends the first line of both of the first two stanzas?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul wight}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11.  Name these viruses on a 10-5 basis. \par 
1. (10 points)  This virus is the major cause of acute infectious mononucleosis. \par 
(5 points)  This herpes virus was discovered by three British researchers and named for two of them. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Epstein-Barr}{\f21\fs18  virus \par 
2. (10 points) It was discovered during the Korean War by the disease it caused: hemorraghic fever with renal syndrome. \par 
(5 points) Spread through rodent droppings, it has killed scores in the southwest US in the past decade. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul hanta}{\f21\fs18 virus\par 
3. (10 points) It was the first virus to be identified when Dmitri Ivanovsky demonstrated that it passed through filters which halted bacteria. \par 
(5 points) This plant virus was also the first to be crystallized.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tobacco mosaic}{\f21\fs18  virus\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 12. Suppose that a pianist plays ascending scale
s, always starting on middle C and on the first beat of the first measure with no rests.  For 10 points each\emdash 
given the type of scale, the type of notes she plays, and the time signature, identify the note that she will play on the first beat of the second 
measure.  For example, if she played a C major scale in whole notes in 4/4 time, she would begin the second measure by playing "D." You have 10 seconds per part.\par 
1.  C major scale, quarter notes, 4/4 time.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul G}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  C minor scale, dotted quarter notes, 6/8 time.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul E flat}{\f21\fs18  (do not prompt on "E")\par 
3.  Chromatic scale, eighth notes, 4/4 time.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul G sharp}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul A flat}{\f21\fs18  (do not prompt on "G" or "A")\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 13.  Although French women were not allowed to rule as queens, some still acquired great power and even became }{\i\f21\fs18 de facto}{\f21\fs18 
 rulers because of an incompetent husband or under-aged son.  For 5 points per answer, given a powerful French woman, name both the king to whom she was married and the son for whom she served as regent.\par 
1.  Anne of Austria.\par 
\tab Answer:  wife of }{\f21\fs18\ul Louis}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Thirteenth}{\f21\fs18 ,  regent of }{\f21\fs18\ul Louis}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Fourteenth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Catherine de Medici.\par 
\tab Answer:  wife of }{\f21\fs18\ul Henry}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Second}{\f21\fs18 ,  regent to }{\f21\fs18\ul Charles}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Ninth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Maria de Medici.\par 
\tab Answer:  wife of }{\f21\fs18\ul Henry}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Fourth}{\f21\fs18 ,  regent to }{\f21\fs18\ul Louis}{\f21\fs18  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Thirteenth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 14. Name these Spanish-language writers, 5-10-15:\par 
1.  For 5 points this recently-deceased Nobel Laureate briefly served as Mexican ambassador to India.\par 
\tab Answer:  Octavio }{\f21\fs18\ul Paz}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  For 10 points the works of this Andalusian poet and dramatist include }{\i\f21\fs18 Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Blood Wedding}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:   Federico }{\f21\fs18\ul Garcia Lorca}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For 15 points this poet and novelist wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 The Tragic Sense of Life in Men and Nations}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 The Christ of Velazquez}{\f21\fs18 ; and }{\i\f21\fs18 Abel Sanchez: A History of Passion}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:   Miguel de }{\f21\fs18\ul Unamuno}{\f21\fs18  y Jugo\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
15. For the stated number of points, name these Roman gods that were not stolen from the Greeks.\par 
1.  (10 points) A god of Sabine origin, he became identified with the deified Romulus.\par 
 \tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Quirinus\par 
}{\f21\fs18 2.  (10 points) This god of beginnings was named first in any list of gods in prayer, even before Jupiter.\par 
 \tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Janus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
3.  (10 points) In the Aeneid, these household gods were carried by Anchises as Aeneas fled Troy. Their collective name means "dwellers in the store-cupboard."  They were closely associated with another group of household deities that were often depicted i
n votive figurines as youths in short tunics; offerings were made to them on family occasions, such as weddings.  For 5 points apiece, name these two groups.\par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18  \tab Answer:   The }{\f21\fs18\ul Penates}{\f21\fs18  and The }{\f21\fs18\ul Lares}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 16. Answer the following concerning electromagnetic radiation for the stated number of points. \par 

1. (5 points) Place the following types of light in order from longest wavelength to shortest: the light that makes a TV remote control work, the signal emitted by WKRP in Cincinnati, the radiation which affects Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds in the title of a 
Paul Zindel play.  You have 10 seconds.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul WKRP}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul remote control}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul marigolds}{\f21\fs18  (Note: radio, infrared, and gamma radiation, respectively)\par 
2. (10 points) This property of EM radiation describes the direction and magntidue of the electric and magnetic fields.  Types include circular, elliptical, and linear.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul polarization}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This is the name for EM radiation produced by the acceleration of a charge in the Coulomb field of another charge.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul bremsstrahlung}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 17.  Identify the following about U.S. historical events from the year 1980 for 10 points each:\par 
1.  In March, a plunge in the price of this commodity threatened to destroy the multi-billion dollar fortune of the Hunt brothers.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul silver}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  In April, this Secretary of State resigned following the failed effort to rescue the hostages in Iran, a plan which he had opposed.\par 
\tab Answer:  Cyrus }{\f21\fs18\ul Vance}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  In May, an all-white jury in this city acquitted four white policemen of killing black insurance executive Arthur McDuffie, sparking three days of riots in which 18 people were killed and over 400 injured.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Miami}{\f21\fs18 , Florida\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 18. Give the first and last names of these Charles Dickens characters for 10 points each:\par 
1.  After unsuccessful land speculation in the American West, this man is reconciled with his selfish grandfather and namesake despite the scheming of Pecksniff.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Martin Chuzzlewit}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  The dim-witted son of a double murderer, he almost goes to the gallows for his alleged role in anti-Catholic riots.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Barnaby Rudge\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  The assistant schoolmaster at an inhumane boarding school, this orphan is rescued by the Cheeryble brothers.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Nicholas Nickleby}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
19. Are the innate distinctions between men and women so profound that we should treat them as fundamentally unlike creatures?  For the stated number of points-name these authors or creators of works that argue in favor of that proposition:\par 
1.  (15 points) Name either of the co-authors of the 1994 book }{\i\f21\fs18 Professing Feminism}{\f21\fs18 , which refers to zealous unisex feminism as "biodenial."\par 
 \tab Answer:   Daphne }{\f21\fs18\ul Patai}{\f21\fs18 , or Noretta }{\f21\fs18\ul Koertge}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (10 points) Name the woman author of }{\i\f21\fs18 You Just Don't Understand: Men and Women in Conversation}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
 \tab Answer:  Deborah }{\f21\fs18\ul Tannen\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  (5 points) Name the popular author-and frequent "Oprah" guest--of }{\i\f21\fs18 Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18  \tab Answer:  John }{\f21\fs18\ul Gray}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
20.  Name these art periods of medieval Europe for 10 points each:\par 
1.  It lasted from roughly 750 to 900 A.D., beginning as an attempt to bring Roman cultural traditions to Europe.  The Palace School and the Reims School describe its two major styles of manuscript illustration; the period is best kn
own for its splendid covers for Bibles and Gospels.\par 
 \tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Carolingian}{\f21\fs18  Period\par 

2.  Following the Carolingian and lasting from 900 to about 1056, this period was influenced by Islamic art.  The Gero Crucifix is an example of its sculpture.  Featuring an antique revival favored by its early imperial namesake, a piece like the Column of
 Bishop Bernward bears striking resemblance to the Column of Trajan\par 
 \tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Ottonian}{\f21\fs18  Renaissance\par 
3.  The Reiner of Huy Baptismal Font typifies this art and architecture movement of the 11th and 12th centuries.  It included the dominant architecture employed by the conquering Normans in their churches and castles.\par 
 \tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Romanesque}{\f21\fs18  Period\par 
}\pard \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 {\f21\fs18 \par 
Identify the following about the men who shared the 1977 Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel:\par 
1.  For 10 points, this Swedish professor wrote the 1933 book }{\i\f21\fs18 Interregional and International Trade}{\f21\fs18  and co-discovered the Factor Prize Equalization Theorem with Eli Heckscher.\par 
\tab Answer:  Bertil }{\f21\fs18\ul Ohlin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  For 15 points, this Englishman, who shared the prize with Bertil Ohlin, wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 The Theory of International Economic Policy}{\f21\fs18 , which demonstrated the problems of stabilization policies.\par 
\tab Answer:  James }{\f21\fs18\ul Meade}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For 5 points, Meade used this four-letter word to describe economies that are greatly dependent on foreign trade.\tab \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul open}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Pencil and paper ready.  Note the following two lines of C code:\par 
\tab int c;\par 
\tab scanf("%d", c);\par 
[Read aloud as: int-space-c, semicolon, new line.  scan-f, open parenthesis, quote-percent-d-close-quote, comma, space, c, close parenthesis, semicolon.]\par 
For 10 points each:\par 
1.  This code will probably cause what error, similar to a bus error, that results in a core dump?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul seg}{\f21\fs18 mentation }{\f21\fs18\ul fault}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  What character should be added, just before the "c" in the second line, to prevent a segmentation fault?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul &}{\f21\fs18   or  }{\f21\fs18\ul ampersand}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  The ampersand is a necessary part of this code because, in C, it is what type of operator?\par 
\tab Answer:  the }{\f21\fs18\ul address}{\f21\fs18  operator\par 
\par 
Identify the following about balls or brass for the stated point value. 1.  (5 points) This is the scientific name for the sac containing the male testes. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul scrotum}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  (5 points) Name the two chemical elements of which brass is an alloy.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul copper}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul zinc}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (10 points) In human males, sperm produced in the testes matures and is stored in this area before it passes through the vas deferens. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul epididymis}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul epididymes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. (10 points) The earliest brasses were made by heating copper and a particular zinc ore.  This ore, now called smithsonite, is today used in ointments and lotions.  Give its original name which also names the brass.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul calamine}{\f21\fs18  brass\par 
\par 
Identify the following about Rabindranath [ra-BEAN-dra-nath] Tagore for the stated number of points:\par 
1.  For 5 points, the language in which he wrote his essays.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Bengali}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  For 10 points, the Irish author who wrote the introduction to his 1912 work }{\i\f21\fs18 Gitanjali}{\f21\fs18 .  [get-on-JOLLY]\par 
\tab Answer:  William Butler }{\f21\fs18\ul Yeats}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For 15 points, the institute he founded near Calcutta.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Santiniketan}{\f21\fs18   (prompt on "world university")\par 
}}