{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f413\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f414\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f416\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f417\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f418\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f425\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f426\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f428\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f429\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f430\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f6 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}}{\info
{\title According to the traditions of Brabant and Hainaut, females of a first marriage took precedence over males of a second with regard to property inheritance}{\author Brian Rostron}{\operator The Weiner Family}{\creatim\yr2000\mo5\dy12\hr1\min25}
{\revtim\yr2000\mo5\dy12\hr1\min26}{\printim\yr2000\mo5\dy12\hr1\min26}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords3445}{\nofchars19638}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws24116}{\vern71}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb965 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\b\f5\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals
\par Tossups by Carleton College}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 1. Also known as Laerad and Odin's Horse, on the day of Ragnarok, it will be destroyed by Surt, leaving homeless four deer, which represent the four winds, a golden cock named Vidofnir, as well as a notorious gossip.  Mimisbrunnr, Hvergelmir, and Urdarbru
nnr lie at its base, and the realms of Asgard, Jotunheim, and Niflheim are located beneath its three roots.  For 10 points, identify this giant ash tree featured in Norse myth, also called the World Tree.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: Ask }{\f5\fs18\ul Yggdrasil}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Hoddmimir's Wood}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul World Tree}{\f5\fs18  on an early buzz)
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 
\par 2. Rousseau said that his character \ldblquote is that of a fair, open, and truly honest man, and the poet makes him a subject of ridicule.\rdblquote   When a young fop asks him for an appraisal of his poetry, this character makes fun of it and alm
ost provokes a duel.  He almost persuades his great love C\u142\'8elim\u143\'8f
ne (say-lee-men) to marry him, but she refuses to quit society and live like a hermit with him.  He stalks away, as honest and disdainful of society as ever.  FTP name this title character of Moli\u143\'8fre (mole-yair).
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Alceste}{\f5\fs18  or the }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Misanthrope}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 3. Its largest rivers are the Kapuas in the west and the Barito in the south, and its highest point is at Mount Kinabalu.  One of the most sparsely populated regions in the world, the two major ethn
ic groups living on the island are the Dyaks and the Malays.  Kalimantan covers 70% of the total area, and the states of Sabah and Sarawak lie along the north coast.  FTP, identify this third-largest island in the world, which is divided among Indonesia, 
Malaysia, and Brunei.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Borneo\-
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
4. Commonly-used types include pUC18 and pBluescript, and often contain artificially-inserted cloning sites and antibiotic resistance genes.  Occurring primarily in yeast and bacteria, they are used in recombinant  D
NA procedures as intercellular vectors. For ten points, identify this type of autonomously replicating, non-chromosomal, circular DNA. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul plasmid}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 5. According to the traditions of Brabant and Hainaut, females of a first marriage took precedence o
ver males of a second with regard to property inheritance.  Therefore, Louis XIV insisted that his wife Maria Theresa should inherit the Spanish Netherlands from her father Philp IV.  As such, he sent Marshal de Turenne to conquer Flanders in 1667.  Engla
nd, the Dutch Republic, and Sweden formed the Triple Alliance to oppose him; eventually peace was reached at Aix-la-Chapelle in 1668.  FTP, identify this war dealing with inheritance.
\par \tab Answer:  War of }{\f5\fs18\ul Devolution
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 6. Petrovich is a one-eyed, pockmarked tailo
r given to drinking and quoting high prices to his customers.  A Certain Important Person is a recently-appointed bureaucrat who tyrannizes his subordinates.  Akakii Akakiievich lives for his work as a clerk, is delighted by all the compliments for a cert
ain new garment, and destroyed when he loses it a party.  FTP, all these characters appear in what short story by Gogol?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul \ldblquote The Overcoat\rdblquote 
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 7. It was painted as the central panel of an altarpiece for the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception\rquote s c
hapel in San Francesco Grande.  Possibly influenced by Fra Lippi, on the right side, an angel points to an infant John the Baptist praying to the Christ Child, who raises his hand in blessing.  FTP, identify this painting by Leonardo da Vinci, which featu
res Mary at the peak of the pyramidal composition, set in a stony grotto.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Virgin of the Rocks
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 8. It opens by stating, \ldblquote The power to become habituated to his surroundings is a marked characteristic of mankind.  Very few of us realize with convicti
on the intensely unusual, unstable, complicated, unreliable, temporary nature of the economic organization by which Western Europe has lived for the last half century.\rdblquote 
  It attacked its subject for abandoning the low tariffs and the gold-based economy that
 existed before 1914, and its author predicted the German economic weakness that was to result from the impossibly high reparation payments.  FTP, identify this treatise on the repercussions of the Treaty of Versailles, written by John Maynard Keynes.

\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Economic Consequences of the Peace}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 9. He was called by his followers \ldblquote the Prophet,\rdblquote  and the appearance of a solar eclipse convinced him that the time was near.  His plan was to capture the armory at Jerusalem, and then go to the Great Dismal Swamp, 
where capture would be difficult.  On the night of August 21, 1831, he and seven companions killed his master, and then fifty other whites during the next two days.  FTP name this leader of an 1831 uprising in Southampton County, Virginia.
\par \tab Answer:  Nat }{\f5\fs18\ul Turner}{\f5\fs18 
\par    
\par 10. His horse\rquote s name 
is Gunpowder.  His favorite rosy-cheeked student in his singing classes is Katrina Van Tassel.  His rival for her affection is Abraham van Brunt, better known as Bram Bones.  Of course, on the night he throws a pumpkin at this character he is disguised as
 the Headless Horseman.  FTP name this schoolteacher, the main character of \ldblquote The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Ichabod Crane}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11. Students of this philosophical tradition are known as sadhikas and sadhakas.  Based on several dialogues between Shiva an
d Agama, its doctrine regards the changing, visible world as the creative dance of the Divine Mother and sees enlightenment as realizing the essential oneness of self and the Godhead.  Its devotees employ the five M\rquote 
s in their practice, though the ritual and yogic traditions are known more for elaborate use of mantra and mandala and for greater focus on female Shakti.  FTP, identify this esoteric Buddhist and Hindu tradition that doesn\rquote 
t necessarily involve kinky sex.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul tantra}{\f5\fs18   or  }{\f5\fs18\ul Tantrism}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 12. Wor
k on the resonance absorption of gamma radiation and the discovery of his eponymous effect led to a Nobel Prize. In this effect, nuclei in a crystalline solid do not recoil when emitting gamma rays, instead giving all the energy to the photon, which thus 
has a sharply defined wavelength.  For ten points, identify this German physicist, winner of a Nobel Prize in 1961.
\par \tab Answer:  Rudolf Ludwig }{\f5\fs18\ul Mossbauer}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 13. Of this work, Keochel number 297, the composer wrote, \ldblquote I have had to compose a symphony for the openin
g of the Concert Spirituel.  It was performed on Corpus Christi day [1778] with great applause.\rdblquote 
  Because audiences found the original andante movement too long, director Jean Le Gros asked for a new version, and Mozart was happy to adapt his work to suit 
his French hosts.  FTP, identify this symphony in D, number 31, that remained highly popular in the city for which it was nicknamed.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Paris}{\f5\fs18  symphony  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul Symphony No. 31}{\f5\fs18  on early buzz)
\par 
\par 14. The real causes of this war lay in contested border a
reas, uneven trade regulations, and population pressures between its two participants.  Lyndon Johnson arranged a trade between the nations of a squatter named Martinez Argueta, who had been sentenced to twenty years in prison for illegal entry into one c
ountry for sixty of the other\rquote s captured soldiers.  Tension continued, however, and on July 14, 1969, hostilities began between El Salvador and Honduras.  FTP, identify this \ldblquote sporting\rdblquote 
 war, which broke out after a World Cup match.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Soccer}{\f5\fs18  War or Guerra de }{\f5\fs18\ul F\'9ctbol
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
15. This model was proposed to account for gases with particle interactions.  One coefficient accounts for long-range particle attractions and effectively increases the pressure, while the second accounts for the finite volume of the atoms 
and decreases the effective volume.  For ten points, name this correction to the ideal gas law. 
\par     Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul van der Waals}{\f5\fs18  gas law or equation of state
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 16. Individual sections examine the works of Jane Austen, Milton\rquote s daughters, George Eliot, and Charlotte Bronte, all combining }{\i\f5\fs18 Toward a Female Poetics}{\f5\fs18 
.  The book\rquote s title refers either to Bertha Rochester or to the narrator of \ldblquote The Yellow Wallpaper.\rdblquote   FTP, identify this key work of feminist literary criticism by Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Madwoman in the Attic}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 17. On March 9, James Reed, a Unitarian minister, was assaulted as he left a restaurant; he died two days later.  Two days before the beating, Hosea Williams had led a march that was violently suppressed on a day that would become known as \ldblquote 
Bloody Sunday.\rdblquote 
  Martin Luther King defied a federal court order to lead a march in response, but then turned his followers around on the Edmund Pettus Bridge when confronted by Alabama state troopers.  Finally, on March 21, 1965, the march from t
his Alabama city to Montgomery was allowed to occur.  FTP name it.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Selma}{\f5\fs18   
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 18. These phyllosilicates are also called isinglass.  Members exhibit monocline crystals and have excellent basal cleavage.  Types include iron-rich biotite, lepidolite, 
and muscovite and class members are used as electrical insulation and Christmas tree snow. For ten points, identify the hydrous silicates of aluminum and potassium that are composed of many thin sheets. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul mica}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19. She represented her country at t
he League of Nations and the UN, and under Jose Vasconcelos, she participated in revising the Mexican school system.  She donated the proceeds from one of her collections to help Basque orphans, and her poetry has been translated by Doris Dana and Langsto
n Hughes.  Her works for children include }{\i\f5\fs18 Ternura}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Crickets and Frogs}{\f5\fs18 , and among her verse collections are }{\i\f5\fs18 Lagar}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Desolacion}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 
Sonetos de la muerte}{\f5\fs18 .  FTP, identify this winner of the 1945 Nobel Prize, the first woman and first Latin American to attain that honor.
\par \tab Answer:  Gabriela }{\f5\fs18\ul Mistral}{\f5\fs18   [Lucila Godoy Alcayaga]
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 20.Celebrated well into the Christian era, the lesser of these festivals was held in the early spring at Agrae.  They symbolized the annual cycle of death and r
ebirth in nature, and presumably fasting and ritual purification in the sea took place before the large procession.  FTP, name these rites that celebrated the changing seasons through the myth of Persephone and Demeter, held in a small town near Athens.

\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Eleusinian Mysteries}{\f5\fs18 
\par  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
T1. His early work on isoperimetrical problems impressed Euler and his theorem states that the order of a subgroup of a finite group is a factor of the group's order.  The calculus of variations is a key part of his geometry-
free explanation of mechanics based on the function of kinetic and potential energy bearing his name.  For ten points, identify this French-Italian author of }{\i\f5\fs18 M\u142\'8ecanique analytique}{\f5\fs18 . 
\par \tab Answer:  Joseph Louis }{\f5\fs18\ul Lagrange}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 T2. In order to secure the succession of t
he throne, he took his son Robert as his associate and gave away much of his land holdings.  He spent much of his reign fighting against Charles I of Lower Lorraine, for upon the death of Louis V, the nobles and prelates elected him king, ending the reign
 of the Carolingian line to which Charles was heir. FTP, identify this king of France, who gave his name to the dynasty that ruled France until 1328.
\par \tab Answer:  Hugh }{\f5\fs18\ul Capet
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 T3. Book 2, called Euterpe, tells how Cambyses becomes king and prepares to march against Egypt.  Book 4 introduces Darius and tells how the Scythians outwitted him.  Book 8 describes the Greeks\rquote 
 triumphant victory at Salamis.  The quality of these accounts inspired Cicero to give the work\rquote s author the title \ldblquote Father of History.\rdblquote   FTP name this work by Herodotus.  
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul History}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
\par \page }{\b\f5\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals
\par Boni by Carleton}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 1. Identify these terms associated with Kingdom Fungi from definitions on a 5-10-15 basis: 
\par 1.  This is the term for the biological study of fungus. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul mycology}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  This is the term for the mass of hyphae that constitutes the fruiting body of a fungus.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul mycelium}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  Also called fungus root, in this symbiotic association of the mycelium of a fungus with the certain plant roots, the hyphae form a closely woven mass around the rootlets or penetrate the root cells.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul mycorrhizae}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 2. Identify these players in the Vedic pantheon for 10 points each:
\par 1.  Often associated with fire, the Rig Veda opens by extolling this god, \ldblquote the household priest, the divine minister of the sacrifice.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Agni}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  The administrator of the cosmos and lord of human morality, he spread out the earth and set the sun in motion.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Varuna}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  Indra killed this serpent leader of the Danavas, who lay coiled around the mountain that contained all the water of the world.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Vritra
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 3. Identify the following Chinese rebellions on a 5-10-15 basis:
\par 1.  Taking place in the middle of the 19th century, over 20 million people died.  A disappointed government worker started a religious cult and tried to found the Heavenly Kingdom of Great Peace.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Taiping}{\f5\fs18  rebellion
\par 2.  Named after its leader, a general who tried to topple the T'ang dynasty, this took place between 755 and 763.  
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul An Lu-shan}{\f5\fs18  rebellion
\par 3.  This took place under the influence of a religious cult over 400 years old.  Beginning in 1796, it was dedicated to overthrowing the alien Manchu invaders.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul White Lotus}{\f5\fs18  rebellion
\par 
\par 4. Answer these questions about pioneers of electronic music FTP each.
\par 1.  This man's investigations into the uses of electric sound date back to 1931's use of theramins in Ionisation and his 1958 Poeme Electronique for the World's Fair.  
\par       Answer:  Edgard }{\f5\fs18\ul Varese
\par }{\f5\fs18 2.  This German composer's atonal music influenced everyone from Kraftwerk to the Beatles.  His 1953 Electronic Study 1 was composed entirely from sine waves, and his later works include Kontakte and Hymnen.  For the performance of h
is epic Gold Dust cycle, he asked his performers to starve themselves for four days while living in complete isolation.
\par       Answer:  Karlheinz }{\f5\fs18\ul Stockhausen
\par }{\f5\fs18 3.  He dabbled with just about every experimental technique known, many of which he had made up himself.  The electronic parts are usually aleatory, including Imaginary Landscape No. 4 for 12 radios and HPSCHD.
\par       Answer:  John }{\f5\fs18\ul Cage}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 5. Identify the following French poets associated with the Symbolist movement for ten points each:
\par 1.  Generally accepted to  be the group's leader, he is best known for his \ldblquote Afternoon of a Faun.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer:  Stephen }{\f5\fs18\ul Mallarm\u142\'8e}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  This author of the collections }{\i\f5\fs18 Les Syrtes}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Les Cantilenes}{\f5\fs18  coined the term \ldblquote symboliste,\rdblquote  which he wanted to replace the word \ldblquote decadent\rdblquote  when dis
cussing late 19th century French writing.
\par \tab Answer:  Jean }{\f5\fs18\ul Moreas}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  Mallarme extolled this impoverished aristocrat as the ideal of  \ldblquote symbolisme.\rdblquote   He wrote the epic play }{\i\f5\fs18 Axel}{\f5\fs18 , the collection of stories }{\i\f5\fs18 Contes cruels}{\f5\fs18 , and the poem \ldblquote 
Tribulat bonhomet.\rdblquote 
\par \tab Answer:  Philippe Auguste }{\f5\fs18\ul Villiers}{\f5\fs18  de l'Isle Adam
\par 
\par 6. Identify the following facts about the Atlas mountains for the stated number of points:
\par 1.  FTP, its name translates as \ldblquote west,\rdblquote  and the Atlas mountains cover much of this Arab region in Northwest Africa.
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\f5\fs18\ul Maghreb}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  Name the tallest mountain in the range for 10 points, or name the country it is in for five points.
\par \tab Answer:  Mt. }{\f5\fs18\ul Toubkal}{\f5\fs18  in }{\f5\fs18\ul Morocco}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  The Algerian section of the chain can be divided into two large sections, one to the north and one to the south.  Name either of the sections for ten points.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Tell}{\f5\fs18  Atlas and }{\f5\fs18\ul Saharan}{\f5\fs18  Atlas ranges
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 7. Identify these elementary particles from descriptions for 10 points each: 
\par 1. This class of hadrons is composed of an even number of quarks and antiquarks.  Examples include the kaons.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul meson}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 2.  The lightest mesons, these particles are exchanged in interconverting protons and neutrons. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul pion}{\f5\fs18 s or }{\f5\fs18\ul pi meson}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 3.  A pi plus particle can decay into a neutrino and the positive version of this lepton, which, in turn, decays to a positron, neutrino and antineutrino.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul muon}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 8. Identify these famous Romans for the stated number of points:
\par 1. 10.  He attempted to redistribute land to the peasants from the wealthy aristocrats and to divide the kingdom of Pergamum among the people, but he was killed on the steps of the senate in 133 BC.  
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul T}{\f5\fs18 iberius }{\f5\fs18\ul Gracchus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. 5.  Tiberius Gracchus served under this General while fighting against Carthage.  Name this hero of the Third Punic War who also conquered Numantine Spain.
\par \tab Answer:  Publius Cornelius }{\f5\fs18\ul Scipio Africanus the Younger}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Aemilianus}{\f5\fs18  Numantinus
\par 3. 15.  Scipio was introduced to war while serving under his father during the Macedonian Wars.  Macedonia was then under the reign of its last king, the successor to Philip V.  Name this king defeated at Pydna in 168 who has a mythological counterpart.

\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Perseus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 9. Name these pretentious Frog intellectuals FTP each. 
\par 1.  In response to Descartes, he said, "Where I think 'I thi
nk, therefore I am", that is where I am not."  Highly controversial within the psychoanalytical community, his chief claim, drawing on the linguistics of Saussure and Jakobson, is that the unconscious is literally structured like a language, so that Freud
's vague terminology can be rendered more precisely through metaphor and metonymy.
\par       Answer:  Jacques }{\f5\fs18\ul Lacan}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  He maintains an intellectual opposition to much thought, adhering to radical notions like Spinoza's ontology, Hume's empiricism, and much of 
Nietzsche in works such as Difference and Repetition.  A leader of the anti-psychiatry movement of the 1960's, he opposed Lacan and all things Freudian in works such as Anti-Oedipus written with Felix Guattari.
\par       Answer:  Gilles }{\f5\fs18\ul Deleuze}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  An exponent
 of post-modernism, he argues that grand philosophical schemes have failed, and all that remains is a "dissensus" of incommensurable language-games-all of which are valid in a world of intellectual democracy.  His works include The Post-modern Condition, 
The Differend, and Pacific Wall.
\par       Answer:  Jean-Francois }{\f5\fs18\ul Lyotard
\par 
\par }{\f5\fs18 10. An eminent 19th-century critic claimed there were three perfect plots in all of literature. One was "Oedipus Rex"; identify these other two from descriptions for ten points each.
\par 1.  The butler Face, the swindler Subtle, and the prostitute Doll Common cheat various Puritans, shopkeepers and squires, including Sir Epicure Mammon, until the butler's master Lovewit returns. (in this play by Ben Jonson.)
\par \tab Answer: The }{\f5\fs18\ul Alchemist}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  Squire Allworthy finds a baby in his bed one night. As the child grows, he searches for his true parentage, seduces several women, and finally falls in love with and marries Sophia Western.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Tom Jones}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  Now, for another ten points, name the poet who expressed this claim in his critical writings, which include the }{\i\f5\fs18 Lectures on Shakespeare}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 Biographia Literaria}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer: Samuel Taylor }{\f5\fs18\ul Coleridge
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 11. Identify the following muscles in the human body from descriptions for 10 points each: 
\par 1.  This largest muscle in the calf, it works in extending the foot, raising the heel, and bending the knee. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul gastrocnemius}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul leg triceps}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  This broad, flat muscle on each side of the neck works to pull the head backward or to the side and helps in raising or drawing back the shoulders.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul trapezius}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  This large muscle covers the shoulder joint and works to raise the arm away from the side of the body.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul deltoid}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul deltoideus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 12. It seems that everyone in the Middle Ages had a cool nickname.  Name these guys F15P each.
\par }\pard \fi-480\li480\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx480\adjustright {\f5\fs18 1.\tab This father of Canute conquered England in 1014.  Then he promptly died.
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Svein}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Sven}{\f5\fs18  Forkbeard}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 2.\tab He\rquote s not Pauly Shore, but this 11th century Norman was an organizational genius, creating the original kingdom o
f two Sicilies, laying siege to Constantinople, and sacking Rome in 1084 to free Pope Gregory VII from the forces of Henry IV.
\par }\pard \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: Robert }{\f5\fs18\ul Guiscard}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Robert}{\f5\fs18  the }{\f5\fs18\ul Astute}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Robert}{\f5\fs18  the }{\f5\fs18\ul Weasel}{\f5\fs18 
\par  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 13. Identify the authors of these \ldblquote maritime\rdblquote  works for 10 points each.  Hint:  They\rquote re all chicks.
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx720\adjustright {\f5\fs18 1.  }{\i\f5\fs18 Un Barrage contre le Pacifique}{\f5\fs18 , or }{\i\f5\fs18 The Sea Wall}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  Marguerite }{\f5\fs18\ul Duras}{\f5\fs18  [dur-AH]  (also accept Marguerite Donnadieu)
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx720\adjustright {\f5\fs18 2.  }{\i\f5\fs18 The Sea, The Sea}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  Iris }{\f5\fs18\ul Murdoch}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \fi-720\li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx720\adjustright {\f5\fs18 3.  }{\i\f5\fs18 The Sea Around Us}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  Rachel }{\f5\fs18\ul Carson
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 14. Given the form of an equation or law used in chemistry, name it for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) The volume of a gas at constant pressure is proportional to its tempature.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Charles'}{\f5\fs18  law or }{\f5\fs18\ul Gay-Lussac}{\f5\fs18 's law
\par 2.  (10 points) The elec
tric potential equals the standard reduction potential minus the natural log of the reaction quotient times the gas constant times the absolute temperature divided by the number of electrons in the half-reaction times the Faraday constant. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Nernst}{\f5\fs18  equation 
\par 3. (15 points)  The vapor pressure of the solvent over a solution is equal to the vapor pressure of the pure solvent times the mole fraction of the solvent in solution.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Raoult}{\f5\fs18 's law
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 15. Answer these questions about Lyndon Baines Johnson for 10 points apiece.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx480\adjustright {\f5\fs18 1.\tab In 1965 LBJ signed the bill authorizing this program for the elderly in Independence, Missouri with Truman looking on.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Medicare}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx480\adjustright {\f5\fs18 2.\tab In 1967 LBJ met with this Soviet premier at Glasboro, New Jersey.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  Aleksei }{\f5\fs18\ul Kosygin}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\tx480\adjustright {\f5\fs18 3.\tab In June 1968, Johnson nominated this man to become chief Justice of the Supreme Court.  In October, he withdrew the nomination.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  Abe }{\f5\fs18\ul Fortas}{\f5\fs18    
\par 
\par 16. Identify the Canadian province given its second-largest city for 10 points each.  5 points will be yours if you need a second geographical, non-city clue.
\par 1. (10 points)  Dartmouth
\par (5 points)  Cape Breton Island
\par       Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Nova Scotia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points)  Moncton
\par (5 points)  Fundy National Park
\par       Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul New Brunswick}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. (10 points)  Brandon
\par (5 points)  Lake Winnipeg
\par       Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Manitoba
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 17. Identify the following pre-\ldblquote Interpretation of Dreams\rdblquote  psychologists
\par 1.  This British physician\rquote s magnum opus was }{\i\f5\fs18 Studies in the Psychology of Sex}{\f5\fs18 , the seven volumes of which were published over 30 years.
\par \tab Answer:  Henry Havelock }{\f5\fs18\ul Ellis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  Freud was influenced by this physician who cured the famous Anna O.
\par \tab Answer:  Josef }{\f5\fs18\ul Breuer}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  Considered the founder of experimental psychology, this German wrote the 1873 work }{\i\f5\fs18 Principles of Physiological Psychology}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer:  Wilhelm }{\f5\fs18\ul Wundt}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18. For 10 points each, answer the following questions relating to the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s:
\par 1.  This man served as Loyalist president from 1936 to 1939.
\par \tab Answer:  Manuel }{\f5\fs18\ul Azana}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  This squadron of 100 German planes terrorized Spain and bombed Guernica.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Condor}{\f5\fs18  Brigade
\par 3.  The Spanish republicans were aided by the "International Brigades" of many countries.  What was the name of either of the American brigades of republican volunteers?
\par \tab Answer:  the Abraham }{\f5\fs18\ul Lincoln}{\f5\fs18  Brigade or George }{\f5\fs18\ul Washington}{\f5\fs18  Brigade
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
19. In 1843 an Irish mathematician was walking down Brougham Bridge when he was struck by an equation involving the first examples of hypercomplex numbers.  Give his name for five points, the 
name he gave these numbers for ten points, and the exact equation he carved into the bridge for fifteen.
\par \tab Answer: William Rowan }{\f5\fs18\ul Hamilton}{\f5\fs18 , }{\f5\fs18\ul quaternion}{\f5\fs18 s, and }{\f5\fs18\ul i^2 = j^2 =
\par k^2 = ijk = -1}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 20. FTP, identify the following Roman love poets from the names of their immortalized beloveds:
\par 1. Lesbia
\par \tab Answer:  Gaius Valerius }{\f5\fs18\ul Catullus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3. Cynthia
\par \tab Answer: Sextus }{\f5\fs18\ul Propertius}{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. Poems addressed to two women: Delia and Nemesis
\par \tab Answer:  Albius }{\f5\fs18\ul Tibullus}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
\par Answer the following questions about the Global Positioning System for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) Because of timing errors, GPS receivers need signals from at least this many satellites to establish positions.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul four}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (10 points) One effect GPS accounts for is the lengthening of a signal's wavelength as it climbs in Earth's potential well.  Name this effect, predicted by general relativity.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul gravitational redshift}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f5\fs18 3. (15 points) The accuracy of GPS can be greatly improved by using two receivers, one stationary and another which is free to move.  What name is given to this modification?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul differential}{\f5\fs18  GPS     
\par }}