{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff6\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f414\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f415\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f417\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f418\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f419\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f426\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f427\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f429\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f430\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f431\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f6 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\f6\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Nationals}{\author Richard Grimes}{\operator The Weiner Family}{\creatim\yr2000\mo7\dy1\hr3\min21}
{\revtim\yr2000\mo7\dy1\hr3\min24}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords4394}{\nofchars25047}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws30759}{\vern71}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\b\f5\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals
\par Tossups by Chicago A}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 1. Characterized by an accelerated proliferation of keratinocytes, it may trigger an associated form of arthritis.  Possibly an immune system disorder, sufferers have red, scaly lesio
ns produced when skin cells reproduce six times faster than normal.  These lesions usually occur on the elbows, knees, and scalp.  For ten points, name this skin disease somewhat similar to eczema. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul psoriasis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 2. The fifth of them is dedicated to
 Frau Hertha Koenig, the eighth is dedicated to Rudolf Kassner, and they are collectively designated the property of Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis-Hohenlohe.  The first begins with the question "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angels' hi
erarchies," while the tenth and last imagines a young man who enters the land of Lament. FTP, identify this group of poems, written between 1912 and 1922 and considered the masterwork of Ranier Maria Rilke.
\par \tab Answer:  the }{\f5\fs18\ul Duino Elegies}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  The site for this
 battle was chosen after the general Arimnestus had a dream in which Zeus told him that the Greeks had misinterpreted the Delphic Oracle, and that there was a plain of Eleusinian Demeter nearby on which they could fight.  After an eleven day faceoff on th
e
 banks of the Asopus River, Alexander of Macedon warned the Greeks of the upcoming attack, which ended with the Tegeans and Spartans pursuing the Persians onto Theban land.  FTP, identify this battle, which took place on the same day as the battle of Myca
le in 479 B.C., in which a force led by Pausanias defeated an army led by Mardonius.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Plataea}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 4.  In 1727 he married Sarah Pierpont and began working with his grandfather, Solomon Stoddard, in Northampton.  After being dismissed from that position
 23 years later in a dispute over Holy Communion, he took up an Indian mission in Stockbridge, and wrote such works as }{\i\f5\fs18 The Nature of True Virtue}{\f5\fs18 , }{\i\f5\fs18 Original Sin Defended}{\f5\fs18 , and }{\i\f5\fs18 Freedom of Will}{
\f5\fs18 .  FTP, name this man, who died of a failed smallpox vaccination in 1758, a year after being named president of Princeton, a theologian best known for his sermon "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."
\par \tab Answer:  Jonathan }{\f5\fs18\ul Edwards}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 5.  It was written in 1933 by a young journalist who had been assigned to produce a Christmas 
tale for his newspaper.  It is told in flashbacks by the 85 year old title character, who sits by the fire on a November day and reminisces about his arrival in Brookfield in 1870, his marriage to Kathy Bridges at the age of 48, and his retirement to Mrs.
 Wickett's after the war.  FTP, name this sentimental novella, whose title character is a teacher of Latin and headmaster of a school for boys, a work of James Hilton.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Goodbye, Mr. Chips}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 6.  Kelvin's circulation theorem guarantees that in an invi
scid, incompressible fluid, this quantity, the curl of the velocity vector, is constant.  An essential element of convection and MHD dynamos, more familiar examples of this quantity occur in hurricanes and airflow around airplane wings.  For ten points, n
ame this quantity, the amount of rotation in a fluid flow.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul vorticity
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 7.  He attempted to follow a policy of neutrality, cochairing the Bandung Conference in 1955 and signing the Panch Shila with Chou En-Lai.  At the same time, however, he favored 
territorial expansion, annexing Goa from Portugal and going to war over the Tibetan border in 1962.  FTP, identify this Brahmin, who became head of the Congress party in 1929 and served as prime minister of India from 1947 until 1964.
\par \tab Answer: Jawaharlal }{\f5\fs18\ul Nehru}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 8.  The last three were discovered after 1863 and are entitled "Proud monster!," "This is the truth," and "Infamous gain."  The first one, "Sad presentiments of what must come to pass," depicts a man with his arms spread apart staring upward, while t
he next two, "With or without reason" and "The same," depict men being run through with a spear and hacked with an axe.  FTP, identify this series of 83 engravings, done between 1810 and 1820 in response to the horrors of the Peninsular War, the work of F
rancisco Goya.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Disasters of War}{\f5\fs18  or }{\i\f5\fs18 Los }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Desastres de la Guerra}{\f5\fs18  
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 9.  Because of his insomnia, the protagonist of this novel has a sound-proof room built in his basement and gets Doctor Pillsbury to put him to sleep through hypnosis.  Although h
e is engaged to marry Edith Bartlett, he ends up marrying Edith Leete after his house burns down with him sealed in the basement room.  FTP, name this novel, in which Julian West becomes a professor of history and marries the great-granddaughter of his fi
rst fiancee after sleeping for more than 113 years, a Utopian work by Edward Bellamy.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Looking Backward}{\i\f5\fs18 :  2000-1887}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par 10.  Roughly 75 percent of its population of over 50 million are Hindus.  Most of the northern and western parts of this state are covered by the Great Indian Desert.  To the northeast lie Punjab and Haryana, to the east Uttar Pradesh, to the east and sou
theast Madhya Pradesh, to the southwest Gujarat, and to the north and northwest Pakistan.  Major cities include Bikaner, Jodhpur, and the capital, Jaipur.  For ten points name this state of northwestern India.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Rajasthan}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 11. With the assistance of
 Rim-Sin of Larsa, he seized Isin, and near the end of his 42-year reign he conquered Mari from Zimri-Lim.  Around 1728 B.C., he succeeded his father, Sin-muballit, to become the sixth king of his state's first dynasty.  FTP, identify this ruler, under wh
ose rule Marduk became the chief deity of Babylon, best known for a stele which depicts him receiving a ring from Shamash, on which the legal code named for him is recorded.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Hammurabi}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 12.  Conceived by Richard Feynman and developed by David Deuts
ch in 1985, they attracted attention in 1994 with the release of Shor's algorithm for prime factorization which is exponentially faster than digital computers.  The basic unit of information, the qubit (KYOO-bit), stores more than one number at a time as 
a superposition of states.  For ten points, name this theoretical but potentially revolutionary type of computer.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul quantum}{\f5\fs18  computer
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 13.  We see her contented childhood in }{\i\f5\fs18 The Bridal Wreath}{\f5\fs18 , but she marries unhappily in }{\i\f5\fs18 The Mistress of Husaby}{\f5\fs18 .  In }{\i\f5\fs18 T
he Cross}{\f5\fs18 
, the final volume of the trilogy concerning her, her husband is killed and she enters a convent, where she dies in 1349 of the Black Plague.  FTP, identify this title character of three historical novels set in medieval Norway, for which the Nobel
 Prize in 1928 was awarded to Sigrid Undset.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Kristin Lavransdatter
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par 14.  He argued that Marx was more Hegelian than the standard Soviet interpretation would admit in his }{\i\f5\fs18 Reason and Revolution}{\f5\fs18 .  He attacked the overly bureaucratized Soviet state in }{\i\f5\fs18 Soviet Marxism}{\f5\fs18 , while h
is best known books argued that capitalism has nullified discontents by producing trivial desires and that the unconscious should be liberated from repression.  FTP, identify this German-born philosopher, whose best known books include }{\i\f5\fs18 
Eros and Civilization}{\f5\fs18  and }{\i\f5\fs18 One Dimensional Man}{\f5\fs18 .
\par \tab Answer:  Herbert }{\f5\fs18\ul Marcuse}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 15.  He resigned from the Senate in 1851 to run for governor, but was defeated by Henry Foote.  Five years earlier, he had resigned from the House to command the Mississippi Rifles in the Mexican-Americ
an War.  After serving as Pierce's Secretary of War, he returned to the Senate in 1857, only to resign again four years later, when Mississippi seceded.  FTP, identify this Southern politician, who became provisional president of the Confederate governmen
t in 1861 and was elected to a six-year term as President the following year.
\par \tab Answer:  Jefferson }{\f5\fs18\ul Davis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 16.  Born Jeno Blau, he entered the Royal Academy of Music in Budapest in 1904, when he was 5 years old.  After coming to America in 1921, he became con
certmaster of New York's Capitol Theater Orchestra, and went on to serve as music director of the Minneapolis Symphony before becoming engaged, along with Stokowski, as associate conductor of the orchestra with which he would spend 42 seasons as music dir
ector.  FTP, name this conductor, who led the first American orchestra to appear in the People's Republic of China when he took the Philadelphia Orchestra there.
\par \tab Answer: Eugene }{\f5\fs18\ul Ormandy}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 17.  Mrs. Lemuel Struthers is something of a strumpet and is being cou
rted by the nouveau-riche Julius Beaufort.  Mrs. Manson Mingott is the morbidly obese matriarch of one of the oldest, most respected families.  May Welland, her pretty, innocent, and vapid relative, is the fiancee of lawyer Newland Archer.  May's cousin, 
C
ountess Ellen Olenska, has just returned from an abusive marriage in Europe to have an emotional affair with Newland, which she later renounces.  FTP, identify this Edith Wharton novel, which examines the social mores of the patrician classes of 1880's Ne
w York.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Age of Innocence}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 18.  Put a sample in a constant and in a varying magnetic field.  The constant field couples with nuclear spin, forming new energy levels.  The second field, usually radio waves, can have the frequency to excite trans
itions between the new states.  A transition tells about the sample's composition-- usually, the presence of hydrogen and carbon-13.  For ten points, name this type of spectroscopy, very similar to a medical scanning technique. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul NMR}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul nuclear magnetic resonance}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 19.  Their rule ended after the Gampei War, during which ti
me the Minamoto family rose to power.  They reached their height under the 32-year reign of Michinaga, which ended in 1027, over 200 years after the capital had been moved to Kyoto and this noble family began its rule as regents to the emperor.  FTP, iden
tify this dynasty, which ruled Japan from 794 until 1192, when Yoritomo established the Kamakura shogunate.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Fujiwara}{\f5\fs18  dynasty
\par 
\par 20.  Part One defines the titular entity as "despair," which is "a sickness of the spirit, of the self, and accordingl
y can take three forms: in despair not to be conscious of having a self, in despair not to will to be oneself, in despair to will to be oneself."  Part Two states that "despair is sin," and the appendix to this "Christian psychological exposition for Upbu
ilding and Awakening" discusses forms of that sin.  FTP, identify this work, published in 1849 under the pseudonym Anti-Climacus, which begins with a discussion of Chapter 11 of John and the story of Lazarus, a work of Soren Kierkegaard.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Sickness unto Death}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
T1.  Because of the rapid temperature drop, neutrinos were no longer in thermal equilibrium with matter after one minute.  Two minutes later free protons and neutrons could combine to produce lithium and deuterium. Recombination occurred 900
 years later, producing a black-body spectrum now seen in the microwave.  For ten points, name this proposed source of cosmogenesis. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Big Bang}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par T2.  The Romans believed that she was the mother of the giant Cacus.  When Heracles came to the underwo
rld to capture Cerberus, the only two spirits who didn't flee from him were those of Meleager and this woman, the daughter of Ceto and Phorcys.  FTP, identify this mythological figure, whose sisters were the immortals Stheno and Euryale, from whose body C
hrysaor and Pegasus sprang after she was decapitated by Perseus.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Medusa}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par T3.  Assume there is a limited supply of two goods X and Y, and two consumers A and B. With the origin at q(x) and q(y), plot B's indifference curves on the negative X, negati
ve Y plane, and with the origin at 0,0, plot A's indifference curves on the X, Y plane. Assume that any intersection of points represents a possible bundle of goods held by the two consumers and you have, FTP, what type of box, useful for determining Pare
to efficient allocations?
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Edgeworth}{\f5\fs18  box
\par 
\par Langdon Cheves became chairman of the Naval Committee, while Felix Grundy and Peter Porter took control of the Foreign Relations Committee.  These Republicans who came to power during the Twelth Congress wer
e given their nickname by John Randolph, and were in favor of expansion into Canada and Florida.  FTP, identify this group of legislators, which also included Richard Johnson, John C. Calhoun, and Henry Clay, who helped instigate the War of 1812.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul War Hawks}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par When inactive, these heterotrimeric proteins are associated with transmembrane receptors.  When active, a subunit's dissociation activates an enzyme, typically adenylyl cyclase, triggering the formation of a second messenger.  The subunit's 
ability to hydrolyze GTP, causing the trimer to reassemble, regulates the activity of, for ten points, what protein class, whose malfunctions are linked to cholera and diabetes, and which won Alfred Gilman and Martin Rodbell a 1994 Nobel Prize.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul G}{\f5\fs18  proteins 
\par 
\par The two central classifications in this area of study are the point and method of articulation.  Combinations of these two parts give the full description of the sound made during, for example, a glottal stop or a dental fricative.  FTP, name t
his branch of linguistics concerned with classifying the sounds which comprise language.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul phonetics}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par He retired to Provence in 1925, where he worked on collages of cellophane sheets which he called "transparencies."  He was a founding member of the Section d'Or (door), and painted works like }{\i\f5\fs18 Catch as Catch Can}{\f5\fs18 
 in an Orphist style until his encounter with Duchamp led him toward Dada.  FTP, identify this French artist, who founded the journal 391 in 1918, best known for "Mechanothropomorphic" fantasies like }{\i\f5\fs18 Universal Prostitution}{\f5\fs18 
 which exemplified his style of mechano-dada art.
\par \tab Answer: Francis }{\f5\fs18\ul Picabia}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par \page }{\b\f5\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals
\par Boni by Chicago A}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 1.  Given a physical example of a radiation mechanism, name it for ten points, or for five points if you need a fuller description. 
\par 1.  (10 points) The Sunyaev-Zel'dolvich effect in galaxy clusters.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18     (5 points) Relativistic electrons and low energy photons scatter, transferring energy to the photons.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul inverse Compton}{\f5\fs18  scattering/effect (do not accept }{\f5\fs18\ul Compton}{\f5\fs18  scattering/effect) 
\par 2.  (10 points) The blue sky and red sunsets
\par     (5 points) The scattering of light by particles much smaller than a wavelength.  The cross-section goes as wavelength to the negative fourth power.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Rayleigh}{\f5\fs18  scattering 
\par 3.  (10 points) Incandescent lights, the Sun
\par     (5 points) Photons are thermalized due to multiple collisions while passing through an opaque medium. 
\par \tab Answer:}{\f5\fs18\ul  blackbody}{\f5\fs18  radiation (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul thermal}{\f5\fs18  radiation after \tab part 1)
\par 
\par 2.  Given a pair of islands or island groups, for 5 points apiece, give the cardinal direction you would most need to travel in to go from the first to the second.  For example, given Australia and New Guinea, the answer would be north.
\par 1.  Nauru and Kiribati
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul east
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 2.  Kiribati and American Samoa
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul south}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 3.  American Samoa and the Solomon Islands
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer:}{\f5\fs18\ul  west}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 4.  Majorca and Minorca
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul east}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 5.  Antigua and Barbuda
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul north}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 6.  Trinidad and Tobago
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul north}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  Answer these questions about a political scandal, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  (5 points)  The scandal erupted in 1872 when the New York Sun charged a number of politicians with accepting stock of this construction company in return for political favors.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Credit Mobilier}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  (10 points) The Credit Mobilier company was established in 1864 by promoters of this railroad to divert profits.
\par \tab Answer: the }{\f5\fs18\ul Union Pacific}{\f5\fs18  railroad
\par 3.  (15 points) A Congressional investigation resulted in the 1873 censure of two representatives, one from Massachusetts and one from New York.  Name both of them for fifteen points; you'll get five points for one.
\par \tab Answer: Oakes }{\f5\fs18\ul Ames}{\f5\fs18  and James }{\f5\fs18\ul Brooks
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 4.  Answer the following related chemistry questions for the stated number of points.
\par 1. (5 points) Name the branch of chemistry concerned with the spatial arrangement of atoms and groups in molecules. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul stereochemistry}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2. (5 points) The nomenclature of chiral centers in organic compunds distinguishes between a counter-clockwise and clockwise rotation around the carbon. What two letters name this system?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul R}{\f5\fs18  and }{\f5\fs18\ul S
\par }{\f5\fs18 3. (10 points) Double bonds can also give rise to stereoisomers.  What two letters differentiate double bond stereoisomers.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul E}{\f5\fs18  and }{\f5\fs18\ul Z}{\f5\fs18 
\par 4. (10 points) In inorganic chemistry, chelates (pron. KEY-lates) are often chiral.  What designations are applied to chiral chelates, analogous to the R,S nomenclature used for organic compounds?
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul delta}{\f5\fs18 , }{\f5\fs18\ul lambda}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 5. Answer the following questions about an American novel, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  (15 points) Subtitled "A Legend of Man's Hunger in His Youth," minor characters in it include Robert Weaver, Francis Starwick, and Bascom Pentland.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Of Time and the River}{\f5\fs18\ul 
\par }{\f5\fs18 2.  (5 points) Who wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 Of Time and the River}{\f5\fs18 ?
\par \tab Answer:  Thomas }{\f5\fs18\ul Wolfe
\par }{\f5\fs18 3.  (10 points) }{\i\f5\fs18 Of Time and the River}{\f5\fs18  was published in 1935 as a sequel to this 1929 novel, in which Eugene Gant first appeared.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Look Homeward, Angel}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par 6.  Answer these questions about a figure from Greek myth, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  
(15 points)  This son of Ares was a king in Lydia who raped one of Artemis's companions in a temple of Artemis.  In revenge, Artemis sent a wild bull which killed him by tossing him into a ravine filled with sharp rocks, after which his son Theoclymenus b
uried him on a mountain named for him.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Tmolus}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  (10 points)  Tmolus was the husband of this woman, who, after Tmolus\rquote s death, bought Heracles as a slave, and then became his mistress and cross-dressing partner.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Omphale}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  (5 points)  As a mountain deity, Tmolus served as the judge in the musical contest between Apollo and this god of pastures and flocks.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Pan}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 7.  For ten points each, given a hormone, name the endocrine tissue by which it is secreted. 
\par 1.  somatotropin, aka growth hormone and STH
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul anterior pituitary}{\f5\fs18  (prompt on pituitary) or }{\f5\fs18\ul adenohypophysis
\par }{\f5\fs18 2.  histamine
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul mast}{\f5\fs18  cells
\par 3.  aldosterone
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul adrenal}{\f5\fs18  cortex (accept adrenal gland)
\par 
\par 8.  Answer these questions about Andrew Yaphe\rquote s favorite subject--19th century Canadian history--FTSNOP.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 1.  (5 points)  This meti led two rebellions, the Red River and the North-West, in the 1870s and 1880s.
\par }\pard\plain \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 Answer:  Louis }{\f5\fs18\ul Riel}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 2.  (10 points)  In 1867, he became the first prime minister of the Dominion of Canada.
\par }\pard\plain \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 Answer:  John }{\f5\fs18\ul Macdonald}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
3.  (15 points)  This movement arose in what is now Ontario in the 1840s in opposition to the use of crown lands to support the Catholic Church.  Its name arose from its members desire to have their party be \ldblquote all sand and no dirt.\rdblquote 

\par }\pard\plain \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Clear Grits}{\f5\fs18  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 9.  Identify these metrical units, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  (5 points) This foot consists of a long syllable followed by a short.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul trochee
\par }{\f5\fs18 2.  (5 points) This foot consists of a long syllable followed by two short ones.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul dactyl
\par }{\f5\fs18 3.  (10 points) Rarely seen as an independent unit, it consists of a long syllable followed and preceded by a short one.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul amphibrach}{\f5\fs18 
\par 4.  (10 points) There are actually four of these, each one corresponding to a group including one long and three short syllables: thus, the first is long short short short, the second is short long short short, and so on.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul paeon
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par 10.  Given a description, name the hominid, for ten points each.
\par 1.  Living between 3 to 4 million years ago, the 40% complete female known as Lucy is the best example.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul australopithecus afarensis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  Found near a. afarensis remains, and living approximately 4.4 million years ago, most of the discovered remains are teeth.  They are believed to be possible ancestors of the australopithicenes.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul ardipithecus ramidus}{\f5\fs18   (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul australopithecus ramidus}{\f5\fs18  -- the naming isn't completely agreed upon yet)
\par 3.  Remains found at the Olduvai Gorge were dated at 1.8 million years old and named George and Twiggy.  They are probably the earliest members of their genus. 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul homo habilis}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par 11.  Answer the following about a fundamental concept of calculus for the stated number of points.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 1.  (10 points) Consider a funct
ion f at the origin.  For each positive epsilon, there's a positive delta such that if the absolute value of x is less than delta than the absolute value of the quantity f of x minus Q is less than epsilon.  What more common name is Q given? 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul limit}{\f5\fs18  of f as x approaches zero
\par 2.  (5 points) What rule is used to evaluate the limits of indeterminate quotients, for instance of the form zero over zero.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul L'Hopital}{\f5\fs18 's rule
\par 3.  (15 points) Evaluate the limit as x goes to infinity of the quantity one minus one over x all raised to the x power.  You have 20 seconds.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul one over e}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul e to the minus one}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 12.  Answer these questions about a novel, for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  (15 points) This novel begins with its title character, a professor at Waindell College, on the wrong train, a mishap which will prevent him from delivering his lecture "Are the Russian People Communist?" to the Cremona Women's Club.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Pnin}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  (5 points) Who wrote }{\i\f5\fs18 Pnin}{\f5\fs18 ?
\par \tab Answer: Vladimir }{\f5\fs18\ul Nabokov}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  (10 points) Timofey Pnin also appears, this time as a professor at Wordsmith College, in what other Nabokov novel?
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Pale Fire}{\f5\fs18   
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par 13.  Answer these questions about everyone\rquote s favorite republic \endash  the Third Republic!  FTSNOP.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 1.  (5 points)  Troops of the Third Republic crushed this brief experiment in cooperative socialism in Paris in 1871.
\par }\pard\plain \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 Answer:  Paris }{\f5\fs18\ul Commune}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
2.  (10 point)  This super-cool Minister of War and possible monarchist threat to the Republic fled at the height of his popularity in 1889; two years later he committed suicide on his mistress\rquote s grave in Belgium.
\par }\pard\plain \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 Answer:  Georges }{\f5\fs18\ul Boulanger}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 3.  (15 point)  Leon Blum was Prime Minister of this socialist movement\rquote s governments in 1936 and 1938.
\par }\pard\plain \li720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul Popular Front}{\f5\fs18     
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 14.  Identify these pioneers from the early period of cinema FTP each.
\par 1.  This Frenchman, who directed 1899's }{\i\f5\fs18 Cinderella}{\f5\fs18  along with about 4,000 other films, invented the fade shot and slow motion.
\par }\pard \s16\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: Georges }{\f5\fs18\ul Melies}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 2.  He was a photographer at Edison's laboratories who built on Melies's work, inventing the close-up in }{\i\f5\fs18 The Great Train Robbery}{\f5\fs18 .
\par }\pard \s16\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: Edwin }{\f5\fs18\ul Porter}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 3.  One of the last masters of silent film was this German-American director, whose }{\i\f5\fs18 Shatten}{\f5\fs18 , or }{\i\f5\fs18 Warming Shadows}{\f5\fs18 
, was a masterpiece of German expressionism and only used four subtitles, and who directed a screen version of }{\i\f5\fs18 Manon Lescaut}{\f5\fs18  in 1926.
\par }\pard \s16\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: Arthur }{\f5\fs18\ul Robison}{\f5\fs18  (accept Arthur Robinson) }{\i\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 
\par 15.  Answer the following question about a figure from the Book of Genesis for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  (5 points) After working seven years in order to marry Rachel, Jacob was surprised to discover after his wedding night that he had consummated with this woman, Rachel's sister, instead.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Leah}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 2.  (10 points) Leah was the elder daughter of this prankster who pulled the switch, then got Jacob to commit to another seven years of work in order to marry Rachel.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer:}{\f5\fs18\ul  Laban
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 3.  (15 points) Laban's trick was especially dirty, because Jacob was already family anyway; he was a maternal uncle!  Who was Jacob's grandfather, the father of both his uncle Laban and his mo
ther Rebecca?
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Bethuel}{\f5\fs18  the Aramaean
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 
\par 16.  Answer the following about our friend, Mr. Sun, for the stated number of points. 
\par 1.  (5 points) Place these layers of the Sun in the correct order, starting with the layer closest to the Sun's center: chromosphere, corona, photosphere.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul photosphere, chromosphere, corona}{\f5\fs18  (just to be clear, the photosphere is closest to the center, the corona furthest away)
\par 2.  (5 points) Sunspots migrate from high solar latitudes to the equator during the solar cycle.  Within one year, what is the average period of this migration.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul 11}{\f5\fs18  years (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul 10-12}{\f5\fs18  years)  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 3.  (10 points) At the Sun's surface, convection produces a characteristic network of cells about 1 megameter in diameter.  Name this pattern. 
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul granulation}{\f5\fs18  (accept }{\f5\fs18\ul granules}{\f5\fs18 )  
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 4.  (10 points) The Sun is less luminous at its outermost edge.  Name this phenomenon, an indication the solar temperature falls with height.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul limb darkening}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18  
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 17.  Identify these Roman emperors from the names of the emperors who came before and after them FTP each.  If you need another clue, you'll only receive five points.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 1.  (10 points) He came between Septimius Severus and Macrinus.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 (5 points) Ruling from 211 to 217, he is remembered for the murder of his brother Geta and his sumptous baths.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Caracalla}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  (10 points)  He came between the joint rule of Numerianus and Carinus and the rule of Constantius.
\par }\pard \fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 (5 points) After ruling for a while with Maximian, he divided the empire into its Western and Eastern branches.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Diocletian}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  (10 points) He came between Macrinus and Alexander Severus.
\par \tab (5 points) This crazy emperor, born Varius Avitus Bassianus, ruled from 218 to 222, when he was murdered by the Praetorian Guard. 
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Elagabalus}{\f5\fs18  or }{\f5\fs18\ul Heliogabalus
\par }{\f5\fs18 
\par 18. Answer the following questions about a Hungarian composer for 10 points each.
\par 1.    This composer of }{\i\f5\fs18 To the Memory of Kliest}{\f5\fs18  and the }{\i\f5\fs18 Hungarian Concerto}{\f5\fs18  also wrote cadenzas to Mozart and Beethoven violen concerti which are still used today
.  He founded the string quartet that was named for him in 1869, in which he was first violinist until his 1907 death dissolved the ensemble.
\par  \tab Answer: Joseph }{\f5\fs18\ul Joachim}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  While in Hanover, Joachim befriended this composer, who wrote a violin sonata with Di
etrich and Schumann for him.  He sided with Frau Joachim, the singer Amalie Weiss, when Joachim's marriage broke up, but the rift was mended when he dedicated a Double Concerto to him.  Who was this German composer?
\par  \tab Answer: Johannes }{\f5\fs18\ul Brahms}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  The success of this composer's }{\i\f5\fs18 Slavonic Rhapsodies}{\f5\fs18  earned him increased recognition and a commission from Joachim, among others.  Therefore, this composer dedicated his }{\i\f5\fs18 Violin Concerto in A-minor}{\f5\fs18 
, Opus 53 (1880) to Joachim.
\par  \tab Answer: Antonin }{\f5\fs18\ul Dvorak}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 
\par 19.  Answer these questions about a play for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  10 points: In this comedy which was first produced in 1607, Ralph becomes a "grocer errant" whose adventures, including a duel with the evil barber Barbaroso, burlesque the conventions of chivalry.
\par \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul Knight of the Burning Pestle}{\i\f5\fs18 
\par }{\f5\fs18 2.  5 points: Although it was long thought to be a collaboration written with John Fletcher, }{\i\f5\fs18 The Knight of the Burning Pestle}{\f5\fs18  is now believed to have been written solely by this dramatist.
\par \tab Answer: Francis }{\f5\fs18\ul Beaumont
\par }{\f5\fs18 3.  15 points: The play begins with a performance of this play-within-the-play, which is interrupted when a grocer in the audience insists that his apprentice Ralph should have a part. 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f5\fs18 The }{\i\f5\fs18\ul London Merchant}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6\fs20 {\f5\fs18 20. Identify these terms used in the thermal classification of animals for ten points each.
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 1.  In animals of this type, sometimes called cold-blooded, body temperature varies with the environment's temperature.  The term derives from the Greek for "unstable" or "irregular." 
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul poikilotherm}{\f5\fs18 ic 
\par 2.  Some animals classed as poikilothermic have fairly constant, high body temperatures.  This term, describing animals who rely on outside heat sources, is now preferred to "poikilotherm" and "cold-blooded".
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul ectotherm}{\f5\fs18 ic
\par 3.  These counterparts to ectotherms were formerly called "warm-blooded" and derive their body heat from metabolic processes.
\par \tab Answer:  }{\f5\fs18\ul endotherm}{\f5\fs18 ic
\par 
\par Identify the Renaissance artist who painted each of the following Madonnas for 5 points apiece.
\par 1.  }{\i\f5\fs18 Madonna of the Harpies}{\f5\fs18  (1517)
\par \tab Answer: Andrea }{\f5\fs18\ul del Sarto}{\f5\fs18 
\par 2.  }{\i\f5\fs18 Madonna of the Pomegranate}{\f5\fs18  (1489)
\par \tab Answer: Giovanni }{\f5\fs18\ul Bellini}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  }{\i\f5\fs18 Sistine Madonna}{\f5\fs18  (1516)
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Raphael}{\f5\fs18  Sanzio
\par 4.  }{\i\f5\fs18 Madonna of the Rocks}{\f5\fs18  (c. 1508)
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Leonardo}{\f5\fs18  da Vinci
\par 5.  }{\i\f5\fs18 Madonna with Chancellor Rolin}{\f5\fs18  (1435)
\par \tab Answer: Jan }{\f5\fs18\ul van Eyck}{\f5\fs18 
\par 6.  }{\i\f5\fs18 Madonna with the Long Neck}{\f5\fs18  (1535)
\par \tab Answer: Francesco }{\f5\fs18\ul Parmigianino}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Given a description of a term from plate tectonics, name it for the stated number of points.
\par 1.  (5 points) These are regions in which two plates move towards each other and one plate's edge is forced under the other's, eventually melting back into the liquid mantle below.  The Marianas Trench is an example of this process.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Subduction zone}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 2.  (10 points) These are stationary columns of exceptionally hot material rising from deep in the mantle which burn through a plate and result in chains of volcanoes as the plate moves.  The Hawaiian Islands are a result of this process.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul Plume}{\f5\fs18 s
\par 3.  (15 points) Located below the lithosphere at a depth of 100 to 250 kilometers, this is the plastic region of the mantle across which the continental plates move.
\par \tab Answer: }{\f5\fs18\ul asthenosphere}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par Answer these questions about business cycle theorists, FTP each.
\par 1.  He showed that economic growth, particularly in the US, was divided into his eponymous "long-wave" and "short-wave" cycles, with the long-waves lasting approximately 54 years.
\par \tab Answer: Nikolai }{\f5\fs18\ul Kondratiev}{\f5\fs18  (or Kondratieff; accept reasonable transliterations)
\par 2.  This man's theory that innovations occur in groups according to 50-year cycles still seems to hold, though the cycles are down in length to about 30 years.  A prize in his name is awarded every two years for advances in the theory of how technolo
gical development influences growth.
\par \tab Answer: Joseph }{\f5\fs18\ul Shumpeter}{\f5\fs18 
\par 3.  This man's theory of cycles in markets is characterized by two types of fractal waves, the Impulses and the Corrections, which together comprise 9 essential wave forms. His work, not always
 accepted by economists, is frequently used by stock market index predictors.
\par \tab Answer: Ralph Nelson }{\f5\fs18\ul Elliott}{\f5\fs18 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20 {\f5\fs18 Identify these French poets FTP each from lines of poetry.  You'll  receive five points if you need the title.
\par 1.  (10 points) "They are Christs of another form and creed / They are the lowly Christs of obscure hopes / Farewell farewell / Sun severed neck"
\par      (5 points) "Zone," from }{\i\f5\fs18 Alcools}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \s16\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: Guillaume }{\f5\fs18\ul Apollinaire}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 2.  (10 points) "I have swallowed a tremendous gulp of poison. -- Thrice blessed be the counsel that came to me!  -- My entrails are burning."
\par      (5 points) "Night in Hell"
\par }\pard \s16\fi720\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 Answer: Arthur }{\f5\fs18\ul Rimbaud}{\f5\fs18 
\par }\pard \s16\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright {\f5\fs18 3.  (10 points) "I want to perpetuate these nymphs.  So bright, their light incarnadine, that it flutters in the air drowsy with tufted slumbers."
\par      (5 points) "The Afternoon of a Faun"
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \f6 {\f5\fs18 \tab Answer: Stephane }{\f5\fs18\ul Mallarme}{\f5\fs18 
\par }}