{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Nationals}{\author boggyman}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Matt Colvin, Marc Swisdak, and Brian Rostron}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 

1. The name was also given to conflicts of 1799 and 1815.  The one of 1832 arose because of opposition to the constitutional monarchy of Louis-Philippe.  In the most famous conflict, peasant leaders and Royalists, encouraged by local priests, formed the "C
atholic and Royal Army."  
After early successes, they were repulsed by Republican forces at Nantes in June 1793, thus dooming the rebels' hopes of marching on Paris and restoring monarchy.  FTP name these counterrevolutionary uprisings that take their name from a western region of 
France.\par 
\tab Answer:  Wars of the }{\f21\fs18\ul Vend\'8ee}{\f21\fs18     \par 
\par 
2. In the second preface to this work, the author states that it was profoundly influenced by his experience of his father's death, which occurred three years before its publication.  Turning away from symbolic and
 decoding interpretations, the author seized upon the idea of wish-fulfillment, claiming that this was the key to the phenomena.  The sixth chapter investigates the process of condensation and the way in which the manifest content is expressed through the 
latent content.  FTP name this seminal 1900 work by Sigmund Freud.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Interpretation of Dreams}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3.  Louis XIV set it up handsomely in the queen mother's Louvre apartment, and donated 660 volumes from his personal library, along with goose quill 
pens, forty in number.  It was abolished during the French Revolution, but revived by Napoleon.  Leopold Senghor, Edmond Rostand, Jean Cocteau, and Claude Levi-Strauss were members, but Emile Zola and Andre Gide never got in.  FTP, name this pretentious bo
dy with no apparent duties except maintaining the purity of the French language.\par 
\tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Acad\'8emie Fran\'8daise}{\f21\fs18  (accept the }{\f21\fs18\ul French Academy}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
4. In stars it occurs when entropy increases outward.  Its efficiency is measured by the Nusselt number and it's 
usually parameterized by a mixing-length theory which treats parcels of buoyant fluid.  It occurs throughout low-mass stars and in the outer 30 percent by radius of the Sun where the magnetic field is connected to the associated fluid motions.  For ten poi
nts, name this method of heat transfer.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul convection}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5.  Titian's }{\i\f21\fs18 Last Supper}{\f21\fs18  was placed in the refectory of this building's monastery, and the books of its library are shelved with their spines to the wall, so that air can get to the pages.  Locat
ed in the foothills of the Sierra de Guadarrama, it was designed like a gridiron to recall a martyr's death.  Called by a name meaning "slag heap," it was supervised by Juan Bautista de Toledo and Juan de Herrera.  FTP, name this palace of Spain's Philip I
I.\par 
\tab Answer:  El }{\f21\fs18\ul Escorial}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. She bore two children: her son, Byron, fell from a window and became mentally disabled; her daughter, Zulu Maud, became her constant companion in later life.  In 1872, she published that Henry Ward Beecher was having an affair,
 and was thereupon arrested for obscenity.  Along with her sister, she had gained the favor of Cornelius Vanderbilt and published the first English translation of the }{\i\f21\fs18 Communist Manifesto}{\f21\fs18 
, but it is as a feminist that she is best known.  FTP, name this 1872 Equal Rights Party candidate, the first woman to run for President.\par 
\tab Answer:  Victoria }{\f21\fs18\ul Woodhull}{\f21\fs18  (accept "Victoria Claflin", her maiden name)\par 
\par 
7.  Peter Bruegel the elder's }{\i\f21\fs18 Fall of the Rebel Angels}{\f21\fs18  was long attributed to this artist until curators discovered Bruegel's signature beneath its frame.  The National Museum in Lisbon holds his }{\i\f21\fs18 
Saint Anthony Triptych}{\f21\fs18 .  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Death of the Miser}{\f21\fs18 
 shows the grim reaper entering a room where an avaricious man sits with small grelims crawling around his bed. His most famous work shows either the creation or the end of the world in grey on the outside, but opens to reveal the Garden of Eden, a prolife
ration of humans, and hell.  FTP, name this Brabant-born artist who created the }{\i\f21\fs18 Garden of Earthly Delights}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Hieronymous }{\f21\fs18\ul Bosch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

8.  He dedicated his great volume of Latin church music to Pope Paul V, hoping to get his son Francesco into the Roman Seminary.  He ended his life as maestro di capella of St. Mark's in Venice, but he spent his prime years at the court of the Gonzagas in 
Mantua, composing secular operas.  One of these is tinged with the grief he felt for his ailing wife Claudia, and was performed at the Carnival of 1607.  FTP, name the composer of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Return of Ulysses}{\f21\fs18 , the }{\i\f21\fs18 
Coronation of Poppaea}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Orfeo}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Claudio }{\f21\fs18\ul Monteverdi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

9. It was repealed in 1970 with no opposition from Richard Nixon, who believed that he already possessed sufficient power because of his position as president.  Passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 414 to nil, it was opoosed by two U.S. Sena
tors.  Drafted in response to supposed attacks of two American vessels, the act gave President Johnson broad powers to increase the U.S. military presence in southeast Asia.  FTP name this 1964 resolution.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Gulf of Tonkin}{\f21\fs18  Resolution \par 
\par 

10.   First given at Oslo in 1936, this prize is restricted to those under forty years of age, in order to reward promise as well as achievement, by the wishes of its endower.  Winners have included Richard Borcherds, William Gowers, and Curtis McMullen, t
hough not Gerald Lambreau, despite what you saw in }{\i\f21\fs18 Good Will Hunting}{\f21\fs18 
.  Andrew Wiles did not win, but was given a silver plaque for his proof of Fermat's Last Theorem.  FTP, identify this prize, awarded every four years by the International Congress of Mathematicians.\par 
\tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Fields}{\f21\fs18  Medal\par 
\par 

11. Who was to blame?  Eventual Postmaster-General James Craggs; Edward Gibbon, the grandfather of the historian; a penniless Scotsman named John Paterson; Robert Harley the Earl of Oxford; and above all, arch-swindler John Blunt.  Who profited?  James Sta
nhope and George I, at least for a while, but everybody lost big, and Robert Walpole forced Parliament to compensate for some of the losses.  FTP, name this market crash caused by the failure of a compa
ny that bought a lot of English national debt before its 1720 bust -- er, burst.\par 
\tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul South Sea Bubble}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

12.  Some of this play's aptly named characters are the good-natured Bonario, the traveller Peregrine, the dwarf Nano, the hermaphrodite Androgyno, the eunuch Castrone (cass TRONE ay), and the knight Sir Politic Would-Be.  Three others are named for carrio
n birds:  Corvino, "crow", Corbaccio, "raven", and the lawyer Voltore (vole TORE ay) , "vulture" -- appropriate, since the play deals with gree
d.  FTP, name this drama that centers on the trickery of the parasite Mosca and his master, a magnifico who feigns mortal illness.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Volpone}{\i\f21\fs18 , or the Fox}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

13. Denoted by a 4 by 4 matrix incoporating an arbitrary rotation and boost, it alters a four-vector of charge and current density just as it does a four-vector of time and position. It can be derived by assuming equality of inertial reference frames and t
he constancy of the speed of light. For ten points, reference frame changes in special relativity are described by what transformation. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lorentz}{\f21\fs18  transformation\par 
\par 

14.  It was compiled uncritically from untrustworthy sources by a young Cheshire native employed as a translator by Reginald Wolfe.  The first and second editions of this book were censored by the Privy Council, but the unexpurgated text appeared in 1587, 
edited by Henry Ellis.  FTP, name this universal history of England, Scotland, and Ireland that provided material used in King Lear and Macbeth.\par 
\tab Answer:  Raphael }{\f21\fs18\ul Holinshed's Chronicles}{\f21\fs18  (accept "The Chronicles of England, Scotland, and Ireland" if given before those words; prompt on "Chronicles".)\par 
\par 

15.  The character was based on a Japanese folk hero with a legendary appetite and derived its name from the word "to eat."  Jerry Buckner and Gary Garcia wrote a song about it that became a Top 10 hit.  This of course happened after rights were acquired N
amco Limited by Bally Manufacturing Company.  By 1981, 96,000 arcade versions of this game had been sold, surpassing "Space Invaders" as
 America's favorite video game.  FTP name this game built around a character with an insatiable appetite who is chased around by ghosts.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Pac-Man}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

16.  By tying off the recurrent laryngeal nerve, this man demonstrated that the brain controls the voice.  He noted seven pairs of cranial nerves and described the valves of the heart, showing that the arteries carry blood, not air.  The Arab physician Hyn
ayn ibn Ishaq later translated this man's works into Arabic.  His services were retained by the high priest of Asia in Pergamum for his personal troop of gladiators.  FTP, name this physician to Marcus Aurelius and Commodus.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Galen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

17.  First mentioned in the title of a 4th-century B.C. Attic comedy by Xenarchus, this deity also appears in one of Theocritus' Idylls, where he encourages goatherds to commit bestiality with their flocks.  On a wall in Pompeii, he is depicted with a scal
e, though he is not weighing judicial outcomes.  FTP, name this agressive, anally-fixated god of gardens, an ithyphallic figure who threatens trespassers with penetration.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Priapus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

18. He is oppressed by his girlfriend Betty's demands that he live a normal life, and his attempts to give hope to those who confide in him always meet with failure.  Mr. and Mrs. Doyle receive advice from him, and Mrs. Doyle tries to seduce him, leading t
o his murder by Mr. Doyle. Throughout the novel he suffers from the cynical comments of his editor, Shrike.  FTP, name this Nathanael West title character, a newspaper advice columnist known only by his female nom de plume.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Miss Lonelyhearts}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

19. Book XV discusses early man, Adam, Cain, and the patriarchs, and the nature of the giants in the earth at that time.  The first seven books talk about the futility and obscenity associated with the worship of pagan gods, decry astrology, and praise Var
ro for his views on these subjects.  The intention is to prove that Christian worship is not to blame for contemporary difficulties.  Book XII argues that evil is non-existent, being
 the turning away of a creature from God to itself, and Book XIV distinguishes two cities, one characterized by love for the creator and the of by love for the created.  FTP name this work completed in 426 by Augustine.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul City of God}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

20.  In 1952, American astronomer Paul Merrill discovered that the 99 isotope of this element is present in S-type stars.  It also occurs in the Earth's crust in minute traces from the spontaneous fission of uranium, but its short half-life -- one and a ha
lf milli
on years for the 98 isotope -- means it could not have been an original consitutuent element on Earth. FTP, name this element first discovered in a sample of molybdenum that had been bombarded with deuterons at Berkeley by Carlo Perrier and Emilio Segre (S
EG-ray).\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Technetium}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T1.   "Things Which Distract in Moments of Boredom," "Amusing Things" and "Irritating Things" are some of the sections of this book.  Written by the daughter of the poet Kiyohara Motosuke, it is the finest example of the zuih
itsu (zoo ih HIT su) genre of "random jottings," and gives detailed information about life at the court of the empress Sadako in Japan's Heian period.  FTP, name this quasi-diary written by Sei Shonagon.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Pillow Book}{\f21\fs18  (accept "Makura no soshi")\par 
\par 
T2.  Along with Adolfo Bioy Casares, he wrote detective stories under the pseudonym Bustos Domecq, published as }{\i\f21\fs18 Six Problems for Don Isidro Parodi}{\f21\fs18 
. During his year in Spain, he joined the Ultra-ist movement, rebelling against the established Generation of '98.  His early works concern the lives of scoundrels, as in }{\i\f21\fs18 A Universal History of Infamy}{\f21\fs18 
.  FTP, name this Argentine author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Dreamtigers}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Book of Imaginary Beings}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Jorge Luis }{\f21\fs18\ul Borges}{\f21\fs18  (boor-hays)\par 
\par 

T3.  His palace was called Shanina-la-ishu, or "The Royal Nonesuch."  His main enemy was the Chaldean Merodach-Baladan, who led a tribal insurrection in Babylonia and probably instigated a Palestinian revolt, both of which this Assyrian king put down.  His
 wars against the Elamites eventually left him powerless for a while, but in 689, he besieged Babylon and sacked it. FTP, name this son of Sargon II who rebuilt Nineveh and made it his capital.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Sennacherib}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Matt Colvin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  Answer the following questions about two artists FTSNOP:\par 
1.  (5) In February 1888, this artist moved to a garishly hideous yellow house in Arles in the South of France, from which he sent paintings and letters to his brother Theo.\par 
\tab Answer:  Vincent }{\f21\fs18\ul Van Gogh}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (15) Van Gogh had high hopes of starting an artistic colony in this city in southeastern France in which he lived in the Yellow house with Gauguin. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Arles}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10) In 1885, Van Gogh painted what masterpiece in which a young girl is depicted watching her elders sharing the fruit of their labor at the dinner table?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Potato-Eaters}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2.  In the wretched Kalevala\par 
Are some mighty obscure figures\par 
But we'll stick to just the famous --\par 
Ten per right response you give us.\par 
1.  Pledged to marry Joukahainen ("Jew kah HIGH nen)\par 
He's a bard of grey-haired vigor,\par 
Leader of Kaleva's offspring,\par 
first inventor of the zither.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul V\'8ain\'8am\'9ainen}{\f21\fs18   ("VAY na MOY nen" -- or so I suppose.)\par 
2.  One of V\'8ain\'8am\'9ainen's brothers,\par 
He's a skillful smith and craftsman,\par 
Born upon a hill of charcoal:\par 
forger of the "lids of heaven."\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ilmarinen}{\f21\fs18  ("Illmar EEN en")\par 
3.  Wooer of a lot of women,\par 
Jovial and reckless lover,\par 
He's a strong and mighty warrior,\par 
Always helped out by his mother.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Lemminkainen}{\f21\fs18  ("Lemon KAI nen")\par 
\par 
3. Name these poems by Dryden, 10 each.\par 
1.  Subtitled "London Reborn," this piece envisions the city raised up from the ashes of the Great Fire of 1666.\par 
\tab Answer:  "}{\f21\fs18\ul Annus Mirabilis}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
2.  A second installment of this poem was cowritten with Nahum Tate in 1682.  It deals gently with the relationship between Charles II and his illegitimate son, the Duke of Monmouth.\par 
\tab Answer:  "}{\f21\fs18\ul Absalom and Achitophel}{\f21\fs18 : A Poem"\par 
3.  Dryden depicts Thomas Shadwell as heir to the throne of dullness earlier held by an awful Irish poet, whom he makes to proclaim, "S(hadwell) alone, of all my sons, is he // Who stands confirmed in full stupidity."\par 
\tab Answer:  "}{\f21\fs18\ul Mac Flecknoe}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
\par 
4.  Answer the following about the brachistochrone problem, for the stated number of points. \par 
1.  (5 points) The brachistochrone, or path on which an object constrained by gravity moves quickest between two points not in the same vertical line, is what sort of curve.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul cycloid}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (10 points) After the problem was proposed in the journal "Acta Eruditorum,"  the first correct solution came from the proposer's brother.  For five points give their surname and for another five give both first names.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Bernoulli}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\f21\fs18\ul Jean}{\f21\fs18  (or John or Johann) and }{\f21\fs18\ul Jakob}{\f21\fs18  (or James or Jacques) \par 
3. (5 points)  Jakob Bernoulli had earlier posed, and Jean had solved, a problem involving what other curve, the path traced by the focus of a parabola rolling on a straight line?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul catenary}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. (10 points) What function makes the following definition of a catenary correct: "y equals b times a function of x over b" where b is a constant.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul hyperbolic cosine}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul cosh}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5.  Answer these questions about the Mexican Revolution on a 5-10-15 basis:\par 
1. (5) The beginning of the Mexican Revolution is dated at 1910 with the overthrow of this long-time dictator who died the following year In Paris.\par 
\tab Answer:  Porfirio }{\f21\fs18\ul Diaz}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10) Hoping to force the U.S. to intervene in Mexico, Pancho Villa raided this New Mexico town on March 9, 1916.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Columbus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15) This man, the first president of the new Mexican republic, accepted the radical constitution of 1917, but destroyed Villa and Zapata's movement.  He was assassinated in 1920.\par 
\tab Answer:  Venustiano }{\f21\fs18\ul Carranza}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\par 
6.  Ten points for each disorder you can name, many of which are among ACF's greatest hits.\par 
1.  A missing sex chromosome in individuals afflicted with this syndrome causes such symptoms as a webbed neck and a shieldlike chest.  It's also called gonadal dysgenesis (diss-GEN-uh-sis).\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Turner}{\f21\fs18 's syndrome\par 
2.  The presence of one or more extra X-chromosomes will produce this affliction, in which males suffer from small testes, breasts, and mental retardation. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Klinefelter}{\f21\fs18 's syndrome (accept seminiferous tubule dysgenesis with a look of incredulity)\par 
3.  This rare disorder is caused by partial deletion of chromosome 5's short arm.  Sufferers experience heart problems and mental retardation. Newborns have a characteristic high-pitched mewl. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cri-du-chat}{\f21\fs18  syndrome or }{\f21\fs18\ul cat's-cry}{\f21\fs18  syndrome\par 
\par 
7. Colvin wrote this really crappy bonus about Annie Oakley, so Brian replaced it.  Answer these questions about 1848 FTP each.\par 
1. In March, this Hungarian revolutionary demanded independence from Austria; the following year he was declared Provisional Governor of Hungary.\par 
       Answer:  Louis }{\f21\fs18\ul Kossuth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. In February, this French king tried to put down a riot and ended up having to flee to Britain.\par 
       Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Louis-Philippe}{\f21\fs18  (do not prompt on or accept partial answer)\par 
3.  This Germany assembly offered the crown of a united Germany to the king of Prussia, but dissolved following his refusal.\tab \par 
       Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Frankfurt}{\f21\fs18  Assembly or Parliament\tab     \par 
\par 
8. Answer the following about primeval soup, 10 each:  \par 
1. The "primeval soup"  theory of the origin of organic molecules was proposed by Aleksandr Oparin and this Brit who co-authored 1927's "Animal Biology" with Julian Huxley.\par 
\tab Answer:  J. B. S.  (John Burdon Sanderson) }{\f21\fs18\ul Haldane}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2.  The first simulation of Haldane's primeval soup was performed by a Chicago graduate student when he passed electric discharges through a mixture of reducing gases.  For five points each, name the student and his advisor, the discover of deuterium. 
\par 
\tab Answer: Stanley Lloyd }{\f21\fs18\ul Miller}{\f21\fs18  and Harold Clayton }{\f21\fs18\ul Urey}{\f21\fs18  (order isn't important, but Miller was the student)\par 
3. For five points per pair, name the four gases used in the original Miller-Urey experiment.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul hydrogen}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul water}{\f21\fs18  vapor (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul steam}{\f21\fs18 ), }{\f21\fs18\ul methane}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul ammonia}{\f21\fs18 
 (Scoring note: 0-1 correct earns 0, 2-3 earns 5, 4 earns 10)\par 
\par 
9.  The Sceptics claimed that nothing can be known.  Prove them wrong by naming them, 10 each:\par 
1.  For 10:  The more radical tradition of ancient Scepticism included Timon and Aenesidemus; they were followers of this native of Elis.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Pyrrho}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  For 10:  Pyrrhonian Scepticism was summed up in the writings of this Greek who lived under Roman rule; his nickname "Empiricus" refers to his allegiance to the Empiricial school of medicine; he wrote "Against the Dogmatists."\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Sextus}{\f21\fs18  Empiricus\par 
3.  For 5:  Modern Scepticism has its origins in this man's statement: "The first precept was never to accept a thing as true until I knew it as such without a single doubt."\par 
\tab Answer:  Rene }{\f21\fs18\ul Descartes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  For 5:  A powerful attack on causation was part of the sceptical program of this man, who also raised solipsistic ideas in his Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.\par 
\tab Answer:  David }{\f21\fs18\ul Hume}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10.  10 points apiece for each work by Goethe, none of which is "Faust."\par 
1. The title character of this play is executed in the Dutch revolt against the Spanish.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Egmont}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Goethe's fruitless affair with Charlotte Buff was the pretext for this 1774 novel, though his momentary infatuation with Miximiliane von La Roche was probably the source for the black eyes of the hero's own unattainable beloved, Lotte.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sorrows of Young Werther}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This 1790 play by Goethe explores the life of another great poet, this one from the sixteenth century.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Torquato Tasso}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11.  For all you auto mechanics fans, name these engines for 10 points apiece.\par 
1. Developed by Nikolaus Otto, a cycle of this reciprocating-piston engine consists of the intake, compression, power, and exhaust phases. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul four-stroke}{\f21\fs18  engine\par 
2. It uses either a two- or four-stroke cycle, however fuel is ignited by the high temperature of compressed air and not by a spark plug.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Diesel}{\f21\fs18  engine\par 
3. Instead of pistons in cylinders, this engine features a rotor in a combustion chamber shaped like a pinched oval. Designed in 1954, Mazda uses it in their RX-7s. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wankel}{\f21\fs18  rotary engine\par 
\par 
12.  Vishnu Jejjala would wet his pants if he got this bonus on Florentine architectural marvels.  Ten each.\par 
1.  Requiring fewer piers in the stream than Roman bridges had, this segmental arch bridge was constructed in 1345 by Taddeo Gaddi.  It was the only bridge spared by the retreating German army in WW II.\par 
\tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Ponte Vecchio}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Probably built in the early 1300's by Arnolfo di Cambio, this structure has been the town hall since 1872.  It was the original site of Verrocchio's Putto with Dolphin and of Michelangelo's David.\par 
\tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Palazzo Vecchio}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Palazzo Della Signoria}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Michelangelo, Alberti, Rossini, and Gallileo are all buried in this church, Florence's answer to Westminster Abbey.  Brunelleschi's Pazzi Chapel is in its 14th-century cloister.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Santa Croce}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13.  Write down these 2 sentences:  "John Nam devoured the pizza."  "The horse gallopped."  Now answer these questions about them for the stated number of poinnts.\par 
1.  For 5, what name is given to a verb like "devoured," which subcategorizes for both an agent and a patient?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul transitive}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  English, like all languages, assigns case, though it does not mark it morphologically.  For 5 points each, what case does English assign to "John Nam"?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Nominative}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For 5, What case does English assign to "the pizza"?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Accusative}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  Not all languages assign case this way.  Some assign the same case to the subject of an intransitive verb as to the object 
of an intransitive verb, and a different case to the subject of a transitive verb.   For 15 points, what name is given to languages of this type, such as Basque, in which "the horse" would have the same case as "the pizza", but not the same case as "John N
am"?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul ergative}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul ergative-absolutive}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\par 
14. Answer these questions about Calvin FTP each.\par 
1.  Throughout his life, Calvin continued to expand and edit this masterpiece of theology, written in Latin and French, and dedicated to Francis I of France.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Institutes of the Christian Religion}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  When this Spanish theologian arrived in Geneva, preaching and publishing unorthodox beliefs, Calvin had him arrested, tried, and burned in 1553. \par 
\tab Answer:  Michael }{\f21\fs18\ul Servetus}{\f21\fs18 \par 

3.  Calvin urged this man to become minister of a congregation of Puritan refugees in Frankfurt am Main, and he later became leader of the Puritans in Geneva.  Mary, Queen of Scots was not very pleased with his "First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monst
rous Regiment of Women."\par 
\tab Answer:  John }{\f21\fs18\ul Knox}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. Given a character's real name, give the name by which they are better known and which names the work in which they appear FTP each.  You'll give 5 if you need the author.\par 
1. (10) Gian' Battista\par 
    (5) Joseph Conrad\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Nostromo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10) Edmond Dantes\par 
(5) Alexandre Dumas\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Count of Monte Cristo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10) Maria Ivanovna\par 
(5) Alexander Pushkin\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Captain's Daughter}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. Answer these questions about the history of 20th century India FTP each.\par 
1. In 1905, Curzon's partition of this province outraged Indians.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Bengal}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This 1942 campaign led by Gandhi among others called for immediate independence from Britain.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Quit India}{\f21\fs18  movement\par 
3. India tested its first nuclear device in this year.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul 1974}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. Identify the following related statistics terms for ten points each. \par 
1. This probability distribution is the limit of the Poisson distribution when the mean is large. It is proportional to "e to the minus z squared". \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gaussian}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul normal}{\f21\fs18  distribution\par 
2. In one form, it asserts that the sum of many independent observations from the same distribution has, under general conditions, a normal distribution. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul central limit}{\f21\fs18  theorem\par 
3. This test can measure if data are drawn from a normal distribution.  In one form it's the sum of the squares of the quantity "observed minus expected value all divided by the standard deviation".\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chi-square}{\f21\fs18  test\par 
\par 
18.  Identify Franz Boas' famous pupils. (10 points each.)\par 
1.  Along with James Baldwin, this student of Boas wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 A Rap on Race}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Margaret }{\f21\fs18\ul Mead}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This son of an Orthodox Jewish Rabbi helped establish ethnolinguistics in his studies of North American Indian languages.\par 
\tab Answer:  Edward }{\f21\fs18\ul Sapir}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This professor at Northwestern did anthropological study of the social problems of American Blacks in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Myth of the Negro Past}{\f21\fs18 .  His 1948 }{\i\f21\fs18 Man and His Works}{\f21\fs18  was revised as }{\i\f21\fs18 
Cultural Anthropology}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Melville }{\f21\fs18\ul Herskovits}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. Answer the following about the kick-ass ABA FTP each.\par 
1. This Pittsburgh Piper and playground legend won the ABA's first MVP award in 1968.\par 
\tab Answer:  Connie }{\f21\fs18\ul Hawkins}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This was the nickname of the ABA's San Diego franchise.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Conquistador}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3. This former player for the New Orleans Bucs was the ABA's last coach of the year in 1976.\par 
\tab Answer:  Larry }{\f21\fs18\ul Brown}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20.  Answer the following questions about all the pretty horses, 10 each.\par 
1.  500 years after the fact, American Charles Dent bequeathed funds for the casting of a 24-foot-long statue of a horse which Ludovic
o Sforza had originally commissioned from this artist, whose twenty-four-foot long model was reduced to a mound of clay by French archers in 1499.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Leonardo}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Da Vinci}{\f21\fs18  (accept either name)\par 
2.  The Equestrian Monument of Erasmo da Narni is the proper name for this bronze statue of a mounted Venetian condottiere (con dotty EY).  It was installed on a bronze pedestal in Padua in 1453.\par 
\tab Answer:  The Equestrian Monument of }{\f21\fs18\ul Gattamelata}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Leonardo's horse and Donatello's Gattamelata are in a direct line of descent from this much earlier equestrian statue now located in the Piazza del Campidoglio in Rome on a pedestal designed by Michelangelo.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Marcus Aurelius}{\f21\fs18  on horseback (accept anything with Marcus Aurelius in it.)\par 
}}