{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}{\s2 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Nationals}{\author Richard Grimes}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd 
\sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Harvard A (Joon Pahk, David Farris, Guy Jordan)}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
1.  This book was attacked by Richard Wright for its use of dialect, but the dialect is generally true to form and evidences the author's expertise in anthropology.  It tells the story of a woman with unsuccessful marriages to Logan Killicks and Jody Stark
s, and finally a third which works out until she is forced to kill her rabies-stricken husband, Tea Cake Woods, with a shotgun. FTP, name this novel about a black woman in rural Florida named Janie, written by Zora Neale Hurston.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Their Eyes Were Watching God\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 

2.  Leon Brillouin resolved the paradox by showing the entropy increase made in choosing outweighs the decrease resulting from execution. In the original version, two isothermal gases were joined at a small hole.  By manipulating the hole, one gas could be
 made hotter and the other cooler. For ten points, what netherworld being, first summoned by a Scottish scientist, seemed to use this method to violate the laws of thermodynamics?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Maxwell's demon\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  He cured the daughter of the judg
e Asterius of blindness, but Asterius later sentenced him to death anyway. There is a dispute between the Whitefriars Street Church in Dublin and the Blessed John Duns Scotus Church in Glasgow as to who has his remains.  He was beheaded in 269 for violatin
g Emperor Claudius II's orders by performing marriages for Roman soldiers. FTP, name this saint commemorated in mid-February.\par 
\tab Answer: Saint }{\f21\fs18\ul Valentine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Jean-Paul Sarte called him \ldblquote the most complete human being of our age.\rdblquote   It was later learned that he 
had spent some time in the Congo helping to organize the Patrice Lumumba Battalion, and he may have visited North Vietnam in 1966.  In the autumn of that year, he arrived in the Santa Cruz region, but was wounded, captured, and killed by Bolivian authoriti
es the following year.  FTP name this Argentine doctor and revolutionary active in the Cuban Revolution.\par 
\tab Answer:  Ernesto \ldblquote Che\rdblquote  }{\f21\fs18\ul Guevara}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5.  Similar to hemoglobins, in these compounds a carbon-hydrogen phytol chain is attached to a porphyrin ring surround
ing a central magnesium atom.  The rare type e is found in golden algae while types a and b are the major forms in higher plants where it is found in chloroplasts. For ten points, name this class of pigments vitally important to photosynthesis. \par 
   \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul chlorophyll}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 6.  Will Honeycomb, Sir Andrew Freeport, and Sir Roger de Coverley appeared frequently in its pages, making shrewd observations on contemporary society.  It was a successor to the \ldblquote Tatler,\rdblquote 
 which had been published by one of this journal\rquote s founders under the pseudonym Isaac Bickerstaff.  For ten points name this periodical, which lasted from 1711 until 1712, whose chief writers and publishers were Richard Steele and Joseph Addison
\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  "The }{\f21\fs18\ul Spectator}{\f21\fs18 " \par 
\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 7.  He first gained fame for the one-act }{\i\f21\fs18 Le Villi}{\f21\fs18 , and Giuliu Ricordi bought that work\rquote s publication rights and signed this man to a contract.  After the failure of }{\i\f21\fs18 Edgar}{\f21\fs18 
, he produced a successful opera based on a novel by the Abb\'8e Pr\'8evost, }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Manon Lescaut}{\f21\fs18 . His final work, based on a Carlo 
Giozzi play and completed by Franco Altano, was the only Italian impressionist opera.  FTP, name this composer of that tale of the son of Tamerlane and a Chinese princess, }{\i\f21\fs18 Turandot}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Giacomo }{\f21\fs18\ul Puccini}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

8.  It was engendered by the Six Acts.  Its organizer, having visited the U.S. and France in the 1790s, became obsessed with the idea that a true patriot must overthrow the established government.  Following the crackdown on radical protest after Peterloo,
 Arthur Thistlewood conceived the idea of assass
inating the entire Cabinet in order to spark a general rebellion in Britain.  Shortly before he and his conspirators were to leave their room on a certain street to commit the crime, they were apprehended.  FTP, name this botched plan.   \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cato Street}{\f21\fs18  Conspiracy\par 
\par 
9.  One of its phosphorylated derivatives acts as a coenzyme in the synthesis of sucrose, lactose, glycogen, and chitin, and often donates phosphate groups to ADP. It was first isolated from herring sperm, and this pyrimidine pairs naturall
y with adenine. For ten points, identify this nitrogenous base which is involved in RNA synthesis but does not occur in DNA. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul uracil}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \par 

10. The man for which it is named deserted Roderick, "the last of the Goths" and the king of Spain, in 711, the year he made the crossing for which he was immortalized.  993 years after Tariq ibn Siyad's Muslims took it, its owners were again deprived of i
t, and the deprivers possess it to this day.  FTP, name this English possession, the "mount of Tariq," or in the Arabic, "Jebel al-Tariq."\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gibraltar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
11. This work consists of two sections narrated by an unnamed traveller and then three selections from what is ostensibly the title character's journal. In a scathing preface, the author writes that the work "is certainly a portrait, but not of a single pe
rson. It is a portrait of the vices of our whole generation in their ultimate development. You will say that no man can be so bad, and I will ask you why, after accepting all the villains of tragedy and roman
ce, you refuse to believe in Pechorin."  FTP, name this 1840 novel by Mikhail Lermontov.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\f21\fs18 (or}{\i\f21\fs18  The}{\f21\fs18 ) }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hero of Our Time}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Geroy nashevo vremeni}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
12. Its author was in the area in question for only five months, but presciently identified language barriers as a cause of tension between the major populations.   His work concluded that the 1837 rebellions were the result of a lack of political cohesion
 and representation.  It also suggested French assimilation into English culture, and the political unio
n of Upper and Lower Canada.  FTP, name this report produced by the Governor-in-chief of the British North American provinces in 1839 that paved the way for responsible government and internal autonomy for colonies, a landmark in British constitutional his
tory.  \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Durham}{\f21\fs18  Report\par 
\par 
13.  Although he only had one sexual encounter his entire life, he was unlucky enough to contract from it the syphilis that would eventually kill him in 1900.  He rejected any rational formalism or morality in favor of an em
otivist approach, and identified competing modes of tragedy.  He also wrote glowing reviews of his own works in }{\i\f21\fs18 Ecce Homo}{\f21\fs18 
, but is perhaps best known for a remark often quoted out of context from a work that was made into a successful tone poem by Richard Strauss.  FTP, identify this "God is dead" thinker.\par 
\tab Answer: Friedrich }{\f21\fs18\ul Nietzsche}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 14.  U Geminorum systems, with periods of 30 days, are dwarf examples of this class.  In a binary system with a white dwarf and a secondary star, gravity can attract material 
from the secondary onto the dwarf's surface.  Eventually the new material goes unstable, a thermonuclear explosion occurs, and the process begins anew.  For ten points, name this occurrence, similar to but less destructive than a type-1 supernova. \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul nova}{\f21\fs18 e (Accept }{\f21\fs18\ul dwarf nova}{\f21\fs18 e on an incredibly early buzz.  Do }{\f21\fs18\ul not}{\f21\fs18  accept }{\f21\fs18\ul supernova}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul 
type-2 supernova}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 15.  He acted under the name David Baron, and as a playwright, his juxtaposition of farce and terror was dubbed "comedy of menace."  This can be seen as
 a married couple and a friend of the wife, while reminiscing, recall a liason between the husband and the wife's friend, in }{\i\f21\fs18 Old Times}{\f21\fs18 , or as a pair of criminals prepare a hit in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Dumbwaiter}{\f21\fs18 
. FTP, name this British playwright of such works as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Room}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 No Man's Land}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Birthday Party}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Harold }{\f21\fs18\ul Pinter\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 16.  After finding out that he was chosen as the new Pope while on a mission to Gaul, he worked to suppress heresy, especially extreme forms of monophysitism.  The Council of Chalcedon, which h
e summoned, accepted his teachings that Christ is both fully divine and fully human, both incarnated in an historical person, as ultimate truth.  The following year, in 452, he personally convinced Attila and the Huns not to sack the city of Rome.  FTP nam
e this doctor of the church and pope from 440 to 461.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Pope }{\f21\fs18\ul Leo}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul I}{\f21\fs18  or the }{\f21\fs18\ul Great}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on "Leo")\par 
\par 
17.  In 1911 Franz Boas wrote that there were 4 unrelated ones, and in a famous 1940 article, Benjamin Whorf claimed that there were 5.  Due to that a
rticle, they became a famous example of how "we dissect nature along lines laid down by our native languages."  Reports of their number exaggerated as the story proliferated, and they have often been claimed in print to be as many as 50, or even 200 plus. 
FTP, identify these words that according to Cecil Adams are due to the dull environment in which inhabitants of the far north dwell.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul eskimo}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul word}{\f21\fs18 s for }{\f21\fs18\ul snow}{\f21\fs18  (accept equivalents for "eskimo"; prompt on partial answer) \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 18.  He extended the different
ial geometry of 2D surfaces, developed by his teacher Gauss, generalizing the concept of metrics and geodesics.  Thus, in 1854, he almost stumbled on general relativity.  He gave his name to the extension of Cauchy's equations in complex analysis and a cur
vature tensor which contracts to the Ricci tensor.  For ten points, what German discovered the zeta function.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Bernhard }{\f21\fs18\ul Riemann\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
19.  During the early 19th century in America, there was a revival of the highly decorative "Canaletto" style, especial
ly among portrait painters such as John Singleton Copley. Thomas Sully, however, preferred plain, less ornate ones, which were well suited to the simple light-hearted appeal of his subjects.  Thomas Eakins was famous for designing and building his own. FTP
, identify these devices which are usually made of chestnut, and usually covered with a layer of gesso and bole before they are gilded.\par 
\tab Answer: picture }{\f21\fs18\ul frame}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
20. In a chapter of this book entitled "The Profession of Faith of a Savoyard Vicar," the autho
r puts forth his claim that a man's faith in the goodness of human nature would be uncorrupted were it not for his belief in an un-dogmatic deistic religion. The title character, after a long education, winds up marrying Sophie once he reaches a stage wher
e he is mentally able to take on such a responsibility. FTP, identify this 1762 educational work by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Emile}{\i\f21\fs18 , ou l'Education}{\f21\fs18  (}{\i\f21\fs18\ul Emile}{\i\f21\fs18 , or Education}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
T1.  Harvard freshman Lothrop Withington, Jr. was the first to participate, on 
March 3, 1939.  Three weeks later, a student at Franklin and Marshall, declaring Harvard men sissies, indulged three times.  Techniques varied; some chewed, while other students simply gulped.  By April, one Clark University student had downed eighty-nine 
of the creatures in one setting, prompting concern from animal rights activists.  FTP name this college craze of the late 1930s.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul goldfish}{\f21\fs18  swallowing       \par 
\par 

T2. Central to its critical theory was a condemnation of modern society, positing that the mechanisms of modern life, particularly mass media and market forces, are detrimental to personal values, dulling social morality in favor of an atmosphere which fos
ters the accumulation of material wealth.  Set up in its namesake city in 1923, it was funded by an endowment from Felix Weil, although during WWII it moved to Columbia Univeristy where it continued to exist as a recognized school until 1947. FTP, name thi
s school of philosophy whose members included Walter Benjamin, Erich Fromm, Herbert Marcuse, and Jurgen Habermas.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Frankfurt}{\f21\fs18  School\par 
\par 
T3.  The name's the same: in Nella Larsen's novel }{\i\f21\fs18 Quicksand}{\f21\fs18 
, it is the name of the black school where Helga Crane begins her teaching career. In Greek mythology, it is the largest of the Cyclades islands, noted for being a center of worship for Dionysus.  It is also where Dionysus found his wife, after she had bee
n abandoned there by Theseus.  FTP, give this name, the home of Ariadne in a one-act opera by Richard (REE-kard) Strauss, perhaps intended by Larsen as an ironic anagram of "Saxon."\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Naxos}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

The oldest to do it was the Spaniard Ramon Blanco at age 60, the first woman to do it was Junko Tabei in 1975, the first to do it alone was Reinhold Messner in 1980, and the youngest was Shumbu Tamany at age 16.  The fastest accomplishments of this feat we
re by Hans Kummer in 16 hours, 45 minutes, and Kaji Sherpa in 20 hours, 24 minutes, from the Tibet and Nepal sides, respectively. FTP, what is this feat, first done by Norgay and Hillary in 1952?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul climb}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Mount Everest}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
She starred in such films as }{\i\f21\fs18 I Married a Witch}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Sullivan's Travels}{\f21\fs18 , and with frequent leading man Alan Ladd in }{\i\f21\fs18 This Gun For Hire}{\f21\fs18 
, but her career came to a screeching halt--she ended up waiting on tables in New York City--when she cut her hair.  For 10 points, who was this classic Hollywood film actress, impersonated by Kim Basinger in L.A. Confidential, who will forever be known fo
r her distinctive long blond hair, which she always let fall over one eye, earning her the nickname \ldblquote The Peekaboo Girl\rdblquote ?\par 
 \tab Answer: Veronica }{\f21\fs18\ul Lake\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
At the right, on a green platform, 4 men stand behind a flagpole, one with a large green garment with red spots, and one sporting blue and orange pants bending away from the viewer.  A red banner across the top proclaims "Vive la societ\'8e
" (VEEV la SOH-see-uh-TAY). In the center, behind a progression of citizens, many in grotesque costumes or poses, and a garish marching band, 
the title figure, garbed in red and sporting a halo, rides a donkey.  FTP, name this influential painting set in the artist's homeland, a depiction of the Second Coming by James Ensor.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Christ's Entry into Brussels}{\i\f21\fs18  in 1885}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Entry of Christ into Brussels}{\i\f21\fs18  in 1885}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
This principle offers an elegant method of finding the equivalent resistance between adjacent points on an infinite resistor lattice. In Young's famous double-slit experiment, it explains how the beams interfere either constructively or de
structively at a point.  For ten points, what principle of electromagnetism states that the field at a point is the vector sum of the fields from individual sources. \par 
\tab Answer: principle of }{\f21\fs18\ul superposition}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Harvard}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  Answer the following about bivalves for the stated number of points.  I promise there will be no }{\i\f21\fs18 The Scarlet Letter}{\f21\fs18  puns.\par 
1.  (5 points) Name the phylum to which bivalves belong. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mollusca}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul mollusc}{\f21\fs18 s}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 2.  (10 points) The largest known burrowing bivalve, it is found along the North American Pacific coast.  It's distinguished by a siphon which can be up to 18 inches long. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul geoduck}{\f21\fs18  (GOO-ey-duck)\par 
3.  (15 points) Some bivalaves attach themselves to surfaces with a strand of chitinous threads secreted by a gland in the foot.  Name it. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul byssus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  Name these Henrik Ibsen plays from their endings for 10 points each.\par 

1.  The title character of this play, Ibsen's first major work, is a zealous and uncompromising religious reformer whose name suggestively means both "fire" and "sword" in Norwegian. He dies in an avalanche in the final scene while the heavens resound "Deu
s caritatus" ("He is the God of love").\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Brand}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  It ends with Judge Brack exclaiming, "People just don't do that," in reaction to the title character's suicide.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hedda Gabler}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Like }{\i\f21\fs18 Brand}{\f21\fs18 , Ibsen's final play also ends with an avalanche.  This time the victims are Rubek and Irene.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul When We Dead Awaken}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Answer the following questions about the so-called "crime of the century," as it was called in 1906, for 10 points each.\par 
1.  First, name the famous architect and designer of Madison Square Garden who formed an important partnership with Charles Follen McKim and William Rutherford Mead.\par 
\tab Answer: Stanford }{\f21\fs18\ul White}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Next, name his lover, a vaudeville actress and singer, who was (unfortunately for him) married to a wealthy, jealous, and violent man.\par 
\tab Answer: Evelyn }{\f21\fs18\ul Nesbit}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Finally, name that husband, who shot White in Madison Square Garden, but who was found not guilty by reason of insanity.\par 
\tab Answer: Henry Kendall "Harry" }{\f21\fs18\ul Thaw}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4.  Identify these things having to do with Biblical texts for 10 points each. \par 
1.  English Protestants withdrew recognition of these texts, appearing in the Vulgate but not the Masoretic Canon.  Sixtus of Sienna technically defined them in 1566 to be those books found in the Greek Septuagint, but not in the 
Hebrew scriptures.  The term is preferred over "apocrypha", since that term has the pejorative connotations of "spurious" or "heretical".\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul deuterocanonical}{\f21\fs18  texts\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  This name, meaning "things falsely ascribed," refers to works like 3rd and 4th Esdras, Secrets of Enoch, and Little Genesis, that are of a "biblical" type but are not canonical.\par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pseudepigrapha}{\f21\fs18  ("Apocrypha" is wrong in this case.)\par 
3.  A copy of this coptic Gnostic book, telling of a disciple of Christ and traditionally believed 
to have been written in 53 C.E. in Madras, was discovered in Upper Egypt in 1995.  Another book of the same title found at Nag Hammadi in Upper Egypt is a collection of Jesus' sayings.\par 
 \tab Answer: Gospel(s) of }{\f21\fs18\ul Thomas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 5.  Given a stage direction, name the Shakespeare play from which it is taken for 5 points, and the character who performs the stated action for 5 more points. Give both answers at once.\par 
1.  Here \ldblquote blank\rdblquote  discovers Ferdinand and Miranda, playing at chess.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The}{\i\f21\fs18\ul  Tempest}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Prospero}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  He drops the juice on Demetrius' eyelids.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Midsummer Night's Dream}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Oberon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Exit, pursued by a bear.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Winter's Tale}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Antigonus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
6.  Identify the following particles FTSNOP.  \par 
1.  (10 points) The discovery of this meson by teams at Brookhaven and Stanford sparked the November 1974 revolution in particle physics.  Consisting of a charm and an anti-charm, it bears two names.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul J/Psi}{\f21\fs18  meson (both required)  \par 
2.  (15 points possible) The electroweak theory of Glashow, Weinberg, and Salam predicts three mediating particles called intermediate vector bosons.  Name them for 5 points each. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Z}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul W plus}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul W minus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  (5 points) Martin Perl's discovery of this heaviest lepton won him a share of the 1995 Nobel Prize. \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tauon}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul tau}{\f21\fs18  particle\par 
\par 
7.  Name the English unifiers FTP each.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1.  This king of Mercia was acknowledged as the overlord of all Anglo-Saxons in 779.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Offa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  This Wessex king recaptured London from the Danes in 886.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Alfred}{\f21\fs18  the Great\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  In 927, this man was acknowledged as the sovereign of all the English, effectively becoming the first King of England.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Athelstan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
8.  Identify the man, 30-20-10.\par 
1.  Born in Hanau, near Frankfurt, his works include }{\i\f21\fs18 The Long Christmas Dinner}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Lindbergh Flight}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
2.  He is not Jacques Offenbach, but this 20th century composer's opera }{\i\f21\fs18 Cardillac}{\f21\fs18  was based on a story by E.T.A. Hoffman.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  This composer is best known for }{\i\f21\fs18 Symphonic Metamorphosis of Themes by Carl Maria von Weber}{\f21\fs18  and the opera }{\i\f21\fs18 Matthias the Painter}{\f21\fs18 
, about the painter Matthias Grunewald.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18  \tab Answer: Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Hindemith\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 9.  Identify the following works which feature Jesus Christ as a main character for 10 points each.\par 
1. This novel by recent Nobel Laureate Jose Saramago is an alternative life of Christ.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Gospel According to Jesus Christ}{\i\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\f21\fs18 2. This controversial work by the author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Ulysses: A Modern Sequel}{\f21\fs18  was placed on the Vatican's Index of forbidden books.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The}{\i\f21\fs18\ul  Last Temptation of Christ}{\f21\fs18  by Nikos Kazantzakis\par 
3. In this story by D.H. Lawrence, Jesus comes down from the cross and ends up marrying a priestess of Ishtar.\par 
\tab Answer: \ldblquote The}{\f21\fs18\ul  Man Who Died\rdblquote }{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
10.  Given the name of a mountain that is a northeastern state's highest point, name the specific mountain range of which it is a part FTSNOP.\par 
1. (15 points)   Mount Greylock\par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Berkshires}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on Appalachians)\par 
2. (10 points)   Mount Marcy\par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Adirondacks}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (5 points)   Mount Washington\par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul White}{\f21\fs18  Mountains  (prompt on Appalachians)\par 
\par 
11.  Identify the following Islamic dynasties for 10 points each.\par 
1.  Ruling large areas of Egypt and the Holy Land between 1169 and 1250, this dynasty was comprised mainly of Kurdish aristocrats, including their most famous leader, Saladin.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ayyubid}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
2.  The name of this dynasty which ruled from Egypt means "slave," as its rulers were former Turkic military slaves who overthrew the Ayyubids in 1250, and ruled until 1517.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mamluk}{\f21\fs18 s or }{\f21\fs18\ul Mameluke}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3.  This was the last Muslim dynasty to rule Spain, and is best remembered today as the dynasty that completed the palatial complexes of the Alhambara and the Generalife.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Nasirid}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
12. Answer the following questions about the Krebs cycle for 10 points each. \par 
1.  The cycle begins with what 3-carbon product of glycolysis? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pyruvate}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  In the first step of the cycle, pyruvate is oxidized to acetyl CoA, which reacts with oxaloacetate to form what 6-carbon compound, which also provides an alternative name for the Krebs cycle?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul citric}{\f21\fs18  acid or }{\f21\fs18\ul citrate}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  In 1
961 Peter Mitchell developed a theory which explained the process of oxidative phosphorylation, in which ATP is formed in the mitochondrion due to a pH differential across the inner mitochondrial membrane.  What 12-letter term did he use to describe his th
eory?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chemiosmosis}{\f21\fs18  or the }{\f21\fs18\ul chemiosmotic}{\f21\fs18  theory\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 13.  Identify these American works from memorable quotes for 10 points each. Just to spite you list people, none of the quotes are from the opening or closing lines.\par 
1.  \ldblquote There was the examination in 
William James' course.  Gertrude Stein sat down with the examination paper before her and she just could not.  Dear Professor James, she wrote at the top of her paper.  I am so sorry but really I do not feel a bit like an examination paper in philosophy to
-day, and left.\rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. \ldblquote He had cried out to her more than a hundred times, saying the same words madly over and over: \lquote You dear, you dear, you lovely dear!\rquote 
 The words, she thought, expressed something she would have liked to have achieved in life.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Winesburg, Ohio}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3.  \ldblquote Do you mind if I pull down the curtain?  Please do, it's too light in here.\rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tender is the Night}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
14.  Identify the writer from works, 30-20-10-5:\par 
1.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Life History and the Historical Movement}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 Vital Involvement in Old Age}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Insight and Responsibility}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 Adulthood: Essays}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 Ghandi's Truth: On the Origins of Militant Nonviolence\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Identity and the Life Cycle}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 Identity: Youth and Crisis}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\i\f21\fs18 Childhood and Society\par 
}{\f21\fs18 4.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Young Man Luther}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \tab Answer: Erik H. }{\f21\fs18\ul Erikson\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
15.  Identify the following Andean Civilizations, NONE of which is the Inca, for 10 points each.\par 
1.  Their capital seems to have been the ceremonial center of Cahuachi, and they are perhaps most famous for their large monumental designs in the desert.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Nazca}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  One of the highest urban settlements in history, this city and its namesake civilization flourished between 500-600 AD high above the timber line on the southern sho
re of Lake Titicaca in Bolivia.  This site is noted for its large stone monolithic sculptures that some scholars suggest connect it with the civilization on Easter Island.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tiahuanaco}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Formed by the legendary king Tacaynamo, this civilization with its capital at Chan Chan conquered most of the coastal region of northern Peru until it ws itself conquered by the Incas in 1460.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chimu}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16.  Identify the following art schools or movements from some of their members for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  (5 points) Adolph Gottlieb, Robert Motherwell, and Philip Guston\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Abstract Expressionism}{\f21\fs18  ("expressionism" is wrong, don't prompt)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  (10 points) Hendrik Weissenbruch, Josef Israels, and Johannes Bosboom\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: The}{\f21\fs18\ul  Hague}{\f21\fs18  School\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  (5 points) Evertt Shinn, Ernest Lawson, and William James Glackens\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashcan}{\f21\fs18  School, or The }{\f21\fs18\ul Eight}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4.  (10 points) Paul Serusier, Maurice Denis, and Edouard Vuillard\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\fi720 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Nabis}{\f21\fs18   \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 17.  Name these elegies, given the name of the poet and the deceased, for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) Alfred, Lord Tennyson; Arthur Hallam\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul In Memoriam: A.H.H\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2. (5 points) Percy Shelley; John Keats\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Adonais}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) John Milton; Edward King\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lycidas\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 4. (10 points) Edmund Spenser; Sir Philip Sidney\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Astrophel\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
18.  Answer these questions about real analysis for 10 points each.  \par 
1.  Despite the name it has nothing to do with a system of weights and measures.  Instead, it's a set with a distance function which is always positive, symmetric, and satisfies the triangle inequality.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul metric space}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  A subset of a metric space has this property if every open cover of the subset contains a finite subcover.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul compact}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul compactness}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  This theorem, named for two mathematicians, states that compactness is equivalent to a set being closed and bounded.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Heine-Borel}{\f21\fs18  theorem\par 
\par 
19.  Given a woman or goddess from mythology, name her husband for 5 points apiece.\par 
1.  Dionara\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Heracles}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\f21\fs18\ul Hercules}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Parvatha\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Siva}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\f21\fs18\ul Shiva}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Nephthys\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Set}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\f21\fs18\ul Seth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  Kyllikki\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Lemminkainen}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  Doris\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Nereus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
6.  Philinoe\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Bellerophon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 20.  Answer these questions about the 1936 presidential election FTP each.\par 
1.  Father Coughlin\rquote s National Union for Social Justice supported this North Dakota congressman who ran on the Union Party ticket.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  William }{\f21\fs18\ul Lemke}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  This prominent magazine predicted a Landon landslide based on a flawed survey.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Literary Digest}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  Name either of the states Landon carried.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Maine}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Vermont}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
Name these computer science data structures for 10 points each.  \par 
1.  This structure implements data lookup in order-one time by mapping keys onto values. A good function for this structure minimizes collisions. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul hash}{\f21\fs18  table \par 
2.  In this structure, elements are added one end and taken from the other.  Known as a "first in, first out" structure, it's the opposite of a stack. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul queue}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  A doubly-linked list with pointers to both the head and tail, it's a double-ended queue which can implement queues, stacks, and other generalized types. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul deck}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul deque}{\f21\fs18  (pronounced "deck")\par 
\par 
Name these caverns for 10 points each.\par 
1.  This cavern on the island of Capri, hollowed out from the limestone by the action of waves, is named for the unusual light patterns from a submerged opening.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul blue grotto}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This cave on the island of Staffa, off of Scotland, continues about 700 feet under Scotland, and has 40-foot-high basaltic columns.  It is also the title of a work by Felix Mendelssohn.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fingal's}{\f21\fs18  cave\par 
3.  You can find the underground Monumental Mountain inside this 5-level limestone cave in southern Indiana.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wyandotte}{\f21\fs18  Cave\par 
\par 
Name these religious leaders for 10 points each.\par 
1. Baha Ullah, founder of the Ba'hai faith, claimed to be the successor of this man, who founded an ascetic sect that blended Gnosticism, Sufism, and Shiite Islam.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Bab}{\f21\fs18  or Mirza Ali }{\f21\fs18\ul Muhammed}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  The Jains believe that Mahavira was the 24th and last of these teachers or saints.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tirthankara}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3.  This forerunner of the Protestant revolution denied the doctrine of transubstantiation and stressed the primacy of Scripture, condemning the Pope as the Antichrist.  His followers were known as the Lollards.\par 
\tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Wycliffe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Answer the following questions about Euclid in literature for 10 points each.\par 
1.  Who was inspired by his study of Euclid to write a 1651 treatise providing a systematic logical foundation for moral and political theory?\par 
\tab Answer: Thomas }{\f21\fs18\ul Hobbes}{\f21\fs18  (the book was }{\i\f21\fs18 Leviathan}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2.  Which poet penned the sonnet "Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare"?\par 
\tab Answer: Edna St. Vincent }{\f21\fs18\ul Millay}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Euclide Auclair is the central character of what Willa Cather novel?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Shadows on the Rock}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Identify these buildings designed by Frank Lloyd Wright for 10 points each.\par 
1.  His home and retreat near Hillside, Wisconsin.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Taliesin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Wright designed the domed ceiling of this building in Racine, Wisconsin out of bundles of Pyrex tubing.\par 
\tab Answer: S.C. }{\f21\fs18\ul Johnson Wax}{\f21\fs18  Company Administration Building\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  One of the few buildings Wright built outside the U.S. was this structure in Tokyo, which he began in 1913.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Imperial }{\f21\fs18 Hotel\par 
\par 
Identify these works of Immanuel Kant for 10 points each.\par 
1.  In this 1788 work, Kant establishes a moral philosophy based on man's free will. Its central tenet is: "Act only on that maxim whereby you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law," known as the categorical imperative.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Critique of Practical Reason}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Kritik der praktischen Vernunft}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Kant outlines his philosophy of aesthetics in this 1790 work.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Critique of Judgement}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Before the }{\i\f21\fs18 Critique of Practical Reason}{\f21\fs18 , Kant laid the foundation for his later moral work with this concise 1785, whose aim was to identify and justify the categorical imperative as the supreme principle of morality.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Groundwork}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Grounding}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Foundation}{\f21\fs18 ) }{\i\f21\fs18\ul for the Metaphysics of Morals}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul 
Grundlegung zur Metaphysik der Sitten}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 Given the chemical formula for an acid, give the its common name for 10 points each.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 1. HCN\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul hydrocyanic acid}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul hydrogen cyanide}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. CH3COOH\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul acetic acid}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul ethanoic acid}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. CH3(CH2)2COOH\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul butanoic acid}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul butyric acid}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}