{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\fs20 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title ACF Nationals 1999}{\author Richard Grimes}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \fs20 {
\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Illinois A}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  His servants were Fimafeng (Handy) and Eldir (Fire\_Kindler).  His father was Mistarblindi (Mist\_
Blind), and his brothers were Kari (Air) and Loki (Fire).  His nine daughters were the waves and his wife and sister was Ran; they lived under the sea near the island Hlesey.  He brewed ale for the gods after Thor brought him a kettle, and every winter the
 gods would drink beer in his home.  FTP identify this ocean god of Norse mythology.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Aegir\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  The daughter of a bear keeper, it is said that she performed as an actress clad only in a single thread to evade laws against public nudity.  Although
 her people later blamed a plague on her promiscuity, they benefited from her reforms that liberalized divorce proceedings and extended toleration to the Monophysites.  Married in 525, she was crowned augusta when her husband Justinian became emperor.  FTP
 name this empress, probably the most powerful woman in Byzantine history.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Theodora}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\par 
3.  A student of William Kent, he rejected the Versailles school and emphasized the undulating lines of the English landscape instead of focusing on formal, g
eometric design.  His best known works are the grounds of Harewood House, Glamis Castle, and Blenheim Palace, where he employed his formula of damming rivers to make lakes in order to provide an impression of space.  FTP identify this landscape gardener wh
o attained his nickname from the habit of extolling the "capabilities of improvement" in a landscape.\par 
\tab Answer:  Lancelot "Capability" }{\f21\fs18\ul Brown}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 4.  One of the poets associated with this group said that she "used sound and rhythm to imitate, as precisely as sh
e could, how an experience felt."  One of the outlets for their work was the magazine "Origin" while the other was eponymous. These poets adopted a form called "projective verse" and members included Denise Levertov, Robert Creeley, and Robert Duncan. For 
ten points, name this group of poets founded by Charles Olson that was named for the North Carolina college with which its members were affiliated.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Black Mountain}{\f21\fs18  Poets\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  Inspired by difficulties in the Klein-Gordon equation, it describes the 
quantum mechanical particles of spin one-half.  Derived by a clever factoring of the energy-momentum relation, this equation, unlike the Schrodinger equation, correctly incorporates relativity.  FTP, name this equation, whose solutions predict the existenc
e of anti-matter.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Dirac}{\f21\fs18  equation\par 
\par 
6.  Discovered and named in 1520 by Magellan, some of its features include the Darwin Range, Alberto de Agostini National Park, and Mount Sarmiento.  Smaller islands include Staten, Navarino, and Lennox, while th
e archipelago itself shares its name with the largest island.  The largest city is Ushuaia, the southernmost city in the world.  FTP, identify this \ldblquote Land of Fire,\rdblquote  shared by Argentina and Chile.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul  Tierra del Fuego}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

7.  It led directly to the end of the Eden government.  It was preceded by the creation of a unified command of Egypt, Jordan, and Syria.  Fearful of being surrounded, Israel launched a pre-emptive strike in the Sinai.  Britain and France soon intervened o
n Israel\rquote s behalf, but were forced to withdraw because of diplomatic pressure from the US and USSR in November 1956.  FTP name this Mideast event, mentioned in Billy Joel\rquote s \ldblquote We Didn\rquote t Start the Fire.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Suez}{\f21\fs18  Crisis\par 
\par 

8.  The Chinese knew it as the Yellow Dragon; to the Hebrews it was the tribal sign of Judah.  The constellation includes Wolf 359, and the rising of its sickle is a traditional herald of the coming of spring.  The second brightest star is Denebola, and it
 appears to be the origin of a meteor shower produced by the Tempel\_Tuttle comet.  FTP identify this constellation, whose brightest star is Regulus, located between Cancer and Virgo.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Leo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
9.  The play opens with the hero walking on the stage with the skull of his fiancee and vowing vengeance upon the duke who raped and murdered her.  In disguise as Piato, he arranges a liaison between the duke and a woman who turns out to be the fiancee's s
keleton; the duke kisses the poisoned skull and dies while watching his bastard son cuckold him.  This is, FTP, the plot 
description of what Jacobean tragedy about the appropriately-named Vindice, attributed variously to Cyril Tourneur or Thomas Middleton?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Revenger's Tragedy}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 

10.  According to one medieval tradition, he was descended from Cain and was an ancestor of Christ.  While the Bible leaves his ancestry largely a mystery, it does record that he fathered 20 or 27 children.  It is also recorded that his friends included a 
Temanite, a Shuhite, and a Naamathite.  FTP, name this man who said, \ldblquote The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Job}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

11.  Although he finished last in his class at West Point, he served with distinction in the attacks leading to Appomattox, so much so that Sheridan presented his wife with the table on which the surrender terms were written.  Two years later, he was court
-martialed for visiting his wife rather than waiting for supplies in the fight against Indians in Kansas.  After being reinstated, he was assigned to the Dakotas, and in 1876 he was directed to compel all the Sioux
 to move to reservations and died in the effort.  FTP name this cavalry commander who perished with his 7th Cavalry troops at Little Bighorn.\par 
\tab Answer:   George Armstrong }{\f21\fs18\ul Custer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
12.  First and last names required: three characters of this name appears in two works of their creator.  The first is a guilt-ridden alcoholic who occasionally takes a break from his "broadway babes" to visit the old homestead near the Hogan farm in "A Mo
on for the Misbegotten."  The other two are father and son in a play that feat
ures only the four family members and a servant girl named Cathleen.  The father is an actor while the son is a drunk, and together they must deal with the insanity of Mary, the family matriarch.  For ten points, give the name shared by these three charact
ers of Eugene O'Neill.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul James Tyrone}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
13.  As this molecule diffuses between cells, it triggers the synthesis of cyclic GMP. Also used by leukocytes to kill bacteria and tumor cells, an overabundance results in shock. It showed that gases could be 
intercellular messengers when it was found to cause blood vessel dilation, a discovery that led to the 1998 Nobel Prize in physiology.  For ten points, name this driving force behind Viagra, with chemical formula NO.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul nitric oxide}{\f21\fs18   (do not accept }{\f21\fs18\ul nitrous oxide}{\f21\fs18 , which is N2O)\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
14.  The first American performance of one of this writer's plays was before the House Committee on Un-American Activities on October 30, 1947.  He left the United States the next day and never returned to Hollywood, where his
 only success had been the screenplay for "Hangmen Also Die."  Other anti-Nazi works include the plays "Schweyk in the Second World War" and "The Resistible\par 
Rise of Arturo Ui."  FTP, name this playwright who wrote "The Life of Galileo," "Mother Courage and Her Children," and "The Threepenny Opera."\par 
\tab Answer: Bertolt }{\f21\fs18\ul Brecht}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18  \par 
15.  The last name\rquote s the same because they\rquote re all related: Otto was a famous conductor, while his cousin Victor was a romance philologist who wrote the book \ldblquote LTI\rdblquote  about the Nazi abuse of
 the German language; the bombing of Dresden allowed him to escape from his confinement to the Jewish ghetto and his journals have recently been edited, translated, and published.  Perhaps the best\_known member of this family is, ironically, Otto\rquote 
s son Werner, who became famous for portraying Commandant Klink in the prison\_camp comedy \ldblquote Hogan\rquote s Heroes.\rdblquote   FTP, give the shared family name.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Klemperer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16.  It is equivalent to the statement that the cartesian product of an infinite family of sets is non\_empty; to Zorn's Lemma; and to the well\_
ordering principle.  It is an assumption independent of the other axioms in Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory.  FTP, what name is given to the assertion that from any infinite family of sets a new set may be created cont
aining exactly one element from each set in the family?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul axiom}{\f21\fs18  of }{\f21\fs18\ul choice}{\f21\fs18  (accept Zorn\rquote s Lemma and the well-ordering principle before they are mentioned in the question)\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 17.  They were noted for their taste, their late awakening, their slowness in 
taking a jest, their fondness for bathing-machines, and their ambition.  They were sought with thimbles and care, pursued with forks and hope, charmed with smiles and soap, and threatened with a railway-share.  The barrister dreamt that he saw one in a sha
dowy court where it was defending a pig on the charge of deserting its sty, but it was the baker who met with one and disappeared.  FTP what are these beasts, some of whom are Boojums, described by Lewis Carroll?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul snark}{\f21\fs18 s (accept }{\i\f21\fs18 The Hunting of the Snark}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
18.  It has been used to justify various U.S. military actions in Latin America, specifically President Taft\rquote 
s ordering of troops into Nicaragua and Honduras in order to guarantee payment of foreign debts.  It came into being when the Dominican Republic an
d Venezuela defaulted on loans from Britain, Germany and Italy. These countries sent war ships to the area which violated the Monroe Doctrine.  In return for their withdrawal the U.S. agreed to police the area to ensure repayment.  For ten points n
ame this policy named after the president who initiated it.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Roosevelt}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Corollary}{\f21\fs18  to the Monroe Doctrine (prompt on early Monroe Doctrine)\par 
\par 
19.  Marcel sings "Piff, paff" to the grotesque accompaniment of piccolo, bassoon, cymbal, and drums.  Raoul de Nangis and Valentine share the duet "O ciel! Ou courez\_
vous?"  In all there are seven major roles, and performances of the work are known as "nights of the seven stars."  An 1876 collaboration with librettists Eugene Scribe and Emile Deschamps, it repr
esents the pinnacle of French grand opera.  FTP identify this history of Marguerite de Valois, the masterpiece of Giacomo Meyerbeer.\par 
\tab Answer: Les }{\f21\fs18\ul Huguenots}{\f21\fs18  (accept Gli }{\f21\fs18\ul Ugonotti}{\f21\fs18  or The }{\f21\fs18\ul Huguenots}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
20.  Double strands of DNA are denatured into single strands and primers are added to their 3\rquote  (three prime) ends.  To finish the process, an enzyme catalyzes new strand production.  It wasn\rquote t feasible until Kerry Mullis discovered the }{
\i\f21\fs18 Themus aquaticus}{\f21\fs18  bacteria, which had the proper metabolic machinery and resistance to high temperatures. For ten points, what process geometrically increases the number of copies of a particular DNA sequence?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul P}{\f21\fs18 olymerase }{\f21\fs18\ul C}{\f21\fs18 hain }{\f21\fs18\ul R}{\f21\fs18 eaction\par 
\par 

T1.  It was chartered in 1553 and the initial cost was 25 pounds per investor. This allowed the company to pay all officials and sea captains while making its purchases with the capitalization of 6,000 pounds.  In 1611 the company paid a 90% dividend, maki
ng the profit for its few privileged investors enormous.  In addition to the money and goo
ds the company brought to England, it also served to increase the communication between Russia and the rest of Europe.  For ten points name the monopolistic company which was chartered by Edward VI to deal directly with the tsars.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  The }{\f21\fs18\ul Muscovy}{\f21\fs18  Company\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
T2.  This law, first postulated in 1833, was used to prove that ozone has the formula O3 (oh-three).  Currently it is used in isotope separation by taking advantage of the fact that different isotopes have different molecular weights, and therefore d
ifferent densities.  FTP, name this this law which states that the rate of effusion or diffusion of a gas is inversely proportional to the square root of its density.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Graham}{\f21\fs18 \rquote s Law\par 
\par 
T3.  It was written as the composer nursed his twenty\_
year old nephew Karl back to health following a suicide attempt.  The opening movement is in sonata form.  The slow movement is full of halting rhythms.  The manuscript of the final movement is marked "
The Difficult Resolution."  A three note motto intoned by viola a
nd cello asks "Muss es sein?" ("Must it be?") and the violins provide the inverted response allegro "Es muss sein!" ("It must be!").  FTP name this 1826 work, Beethoven's last complete composition.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul String Quartet in F}{\f21\fs18  Major, Opus 135\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
"The Secret Miracle" details a writer's last days under a Nazi death sentence.  "The Form of the Sword" tells of an Irish expatriate and the scar on his face.  "Pierre Menard, Author of Don Quixote" explains how an identical version of Quixote is superior 
to Cervantes' original.  "The Babylon Lottery" tells the history of a society ruled by a random, invisible, and god-like Company.  The writer of these works once remarked that \ldblquote 
not granting me the Nobel Prize has become a Scandinavian tradition since I was born-\emdash August 24, 1899."  FTP name this Argentine.\par 
\tab Answer: Jorge Luis}{\f21\fs18\ul  Borges}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
It never undergoes recombination and the expression of genes linked with it gives rise to Sertoli, not follicle, cells.  It contains only 35 million base pairs, making it the smallest human
 chromosome, and its presence explains the prevalence of muscular dystrophy and hemophilia in certain population segments.  FTP, name this sex chromosome.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Y}{\f21\fs18   chromosome\par 
\par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Illinois A}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  Identify the following classes of plant hormones for ten points apiece.\par 
1.  These ubiquitous hormones play a role in everything from phototropism to root growth.  Agent orange was a mixture of two synthetic types of these hormones.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul auxin}{\f21\fs18 s}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 2.  Similar to auxins but, unlike them, they do not inhibit root growth and move freely about a plant.  They can induce bolting in immature plants.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul gibberellin}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3.  These plant hormones interact with auxins.  Cells won\rquote t divide unless both are present.  They have antagonistic effects on auxins in lateral bud development.  They also play a major role in senescence.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul cytokinin}{\f21\fs18 s  (do not accept "cytokines")\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  30-20-10.  Identify the work from quotes.\par 
1. "Given the existence as uttered forth in the public works of Puncher and 
Wattman of a personal God quaquaquaqua with white beard quaquaquaqua outside time with extension who from the heights of divine apathia divine athambia divine aphasia loves us dearly"\par 
2.  "You see, you piss better when I'm not there,"  "I missed you . . . and at the same time I was happy.  Isn't that a queer thing?"\par 
3. "Well, shall we go?"  "Yes, let's go."\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Waiting for Godot}{\f21\fs18  (}{\i\f21\fs18\ul En Attendant Godot}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Answer these questions about utopian communities FTP each.\par 
1.  This Iowa settlement of seven villages was founded by German pietists under Barbara Heynemann.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Amana}{\f21\fs18  Colonies\par 
2.  It was said that this man preached free love, or at least complex marriage, at his Oneida community.\par 
\tab Answer:   John Humphrey }{\f21\fs18\ul Noyes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Founded in 1825, this Indiana community was based on the social principles of Robert Owen.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul New Harmony}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
4.  Identify the following women from Arthurian legend for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  5:  The daughter of Igraine and her first husband, the duke of Cornwall, she gives Excalibur to her lover Accolon to use it against Arthur, and when that plot fails, she steals Excalibur's scabbard and throws it in the Lake.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Morgan le Fay}{\f21\fs18  (not Morgause)\par 
2.  10:  Gareth acts civilly and honorably towards her despite her abuse and rescues her sister Lyonors from her captors.  She ends up becoming his wife.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Lynette}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  15:  Her husband Geraint fights in and wins a tournament in which ea
ch knight strives to defend the assertion that his beloved is the most beautiful.  When the court talks about Geraint's failure to act in a knightly manner, she accompanies him on a quest to prove his valor and her fidelity.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Enid}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 5.  Identify the American authors of the first half of the twentieth century from works on a 10-5 basis:\par 
1. 10: }{\i\f21\fs18 Blue Plate Special}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Slight Case of Murder}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5: }{\i\f21\fs18 Guys and Dolls}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:  Damon }{\f21\fs18\ul Runyon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
b. 10: }{\i\f21\fs18 Awake and Sing}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Night Music}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Clash by Night}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5: }{\i\f21\fs18 Golden Boy}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Waiting for Lefty}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:  Clifford }{\f21\fs18\ul Odets\par 
}{\f21\fs18 c. 10: }{\i\f21\fs18 From Bed to Worse}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 David Copperfield}{\f21\fs18  (1928)\par 
5: }{\i\f21\fs18 My Ten Years in a Quandary}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer:  Robert }{\f21\fs18\ul Benchley}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
6.  Answer the following questions about acid-base chemistry for ten points each.\par 
1.  The H3O+ (aich-three-oh-plus) ion has two names, one common and one systematic.  For five points each, give them.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Oxonium}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Hydronium}{\f21\fs18  (any order)\par 
2.  This equation states that pH equals pKa plus the log of the concentration of the salt divided by the concentration of the acid.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Henderson}{\f21\fs18 -Hasselbach Equation (accept Henderson equation)\par 
3.  If an acid-base reaction occurs in only one step rather than many elementary steps, it is said to be this kind of reaction.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul concerted}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7.  Answer the following about Ancient Indian Civilization for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  The Indus River Valley had two major cities. For five points each, name them.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Mohenjo-Daro}{\f21\fs18  and }{\f21\fs18\ul Harappa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  10: The Indus Valley was overrun by these invaders from the northwest circa 1500 B.C.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Aryans}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  10: The Aryans developed the caste system which eventually was dominated by the Brahmans.  However, originally this warrior caste was the premier group.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Kshatriya}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8.  Identify the fifteenth century sculptors from works FFP each and a bonus five for all correct.\par 
1.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Equestrian Statue of Colleoni}{\f21\fs18  (1480s), }{\i\f21\fs18 Tomb of Piero and Giovanni de'Medici}{\f21\fs18  (1469\_72)                          \par 
\tab Answer:  Andrea del }{\f21\fs18\ul Verrochio}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Penitent Magdalene}{\f21\fs18  (c.1453\_55), }{\i\f21\fs18 Funeral Monument to John XXIII }{\f21\fs18 (c.1435)\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Donatello}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Madonna of the Stairs}{\f21\fs18  (1490\_92), }{\i\f21\fs18 Battle of Lapiths and Centaurs}{\f21\fs18  (c.1492)\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Michelangelo}{\f21\fs18  Buonarroti\par 
4.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Liberation of St. Peter}{\f21\fs18  (1439), }{\i\f21\fs18 St. Gregory}{\f21\fs18  (1469)\par 
\tab Answer:  Luca Della }{\f21\fs18\ul Robbia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Hercules and Antaeus}{\f21\fs18  (1470s),  }{\i\f21\fs18 Monument of Sixtus IV}{\f21\fs18  (1484\_93)\par 
\tab Answer:  Antonio del }{\f21\fs18\ul Pollaiolo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 9.  Name the poet from lines FTP.  Five points are awarded if you need the name of the work.\par 
1.10:  "Sophocles long ago / Heard it on the Aegean, and it brought / Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow / Of human misery; we / Find also in the sound a thought, / Hearing it by this distant northern sea."\par 
5:  "Dover Beach"\par 
\tab Answer:  Matthew }{\f21\fs18\ul Arnold}{\f21\fs18 \par 
b. 10:  "Not all that tempts your wand'ring eyes / And heedless hearts is lawful prize, / Nor all, that glitters, gold."\par 
5:  "Ode on the Death of a Favourite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes"\par 
\tab Answer: Thomas }{\f21\fs18\ul Gray}{\f21\fs18 \par 
c. 10: "And all I ask is a tall ship and a star to steer her by, / And the wheel's kick and the wind's song and the white sail's shaking, / And a grey mist on the sea's face, and a grey dawn breaking."\par 
5:  "Sea Fever"\par 
\tab Answer:  John }{\f21\fs18\ul Masefield}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
10.  Identify these islands of the South Atlantic on a 5-10-15 basis. \par 
1.  5: This island west of Angola, with its capital at Jamestown, has been occupied by the British since the mid-1600's. It is best known in a historical context for a certain resident it had between 1815 and 1821.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Saint Helena}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  10: This island located northwest of St. Helena was named for the day it was discovered by the Portuguese in 1501. It was taken by the British in 1815 and has been administered by Saint Helena since 1822.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ascension}{\f21\fs18  Island\par 
3.  15: This island, along with Ascension Island and Saint Helena, forms the British dependency of Saint Helena.  It was discovered by the Portuguese in 1506 and annexed by the British in 1816.  It lies to the south of Saint Helena.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Tristan da Cuhna}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11.  Answer these questions about an Ottoman FTP each.  And no, we don\rquote t mean the kind you put your foot on.\par 
1.  This great law-giver extended Ottoman power in north Africa, the Middle East, and Europe during his 1520-1566 reign.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Suleyman I}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Suleyman the Magnificent}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Perhaps Suleyman I\rquote s greatest victory was this 1526 battle that effectively ended the old Hungarian kingdom\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Mohacs}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Only the weather could prevent the Ottomans from taking this city in a 1529 siege.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Vienna}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12.  Identify the mathematical constants for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  5:  The ratio of successive terms in the Fibonacci sequence converges to  this constant called phi.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul golden mean}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul golden ratio}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul divine proportion}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  10:  It is not known whether it is irrational, let alone transcendental. Abbreviated lower\_case gamma, it is approximately 0.57721.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Euler}{\f21\fs18 \_Mascheroni Constant\par 
3.  15:  An irrational number, approximately 1.202, it is defined as the zeta function evaluated at x=3.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Apery}{\f21\fs18 's constant\par 
\par 
13.  Identify the following things about the end of the world from the Revelation of John for 10 points each, with a 30-point bonus for accepting the sign of the beast in your forehead.\par 
1.  This star will fall to earth and poison one-third of the water.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Wormwood}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This woman rides on a scarlet beast covered with blasphemous names that has seven heads and ten horns.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Whore of Babylon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Along with four living creatures and the 24 elders who surround the throne of the lamb, there are this many elect who bear "the name of the lamb", symbolized by the tribes of Israel.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul 144,000}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14.  Codicology is the study of books; it\rquote s what medievalists do for fun.  Identify these codicological terms for 10 points each.\par 
1.  A manuscript whose text has been scratched out and written over.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul palimpsest}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  From the Latin word for \ldblquote cradle,\rdblquote  this term designates any book from the infancy of book printing in the 15th century.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul incunable}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul incunabulum}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul incunabula}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  The text, usually at the end of a manuscript or printed book, which identifies the scribe or publisher and often the place and date of a book\rquote s printing.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul collophon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15.  Answer these questions about Populism for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  10:  This organization, sometimes called the Southern Alliance, was founded in 1875 and represented discontented rural Southern and Western voters.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Farmers\rquote  Alliance}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  15:  In 1890, the Farmers\rquote  Alliance, along with the Colored Farmers\rquote  Alliance, met in a Florida city and issued this document that called for state control of railroads and direct election of senators.\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Ocala }{\f21\fs18 Demands\par 
c:  In 1892 the Farmers\rquote  Alliance became the People\rquote s Party, or Populists, and nominated this man for president.\par 
\tab Answer:   James }{\f21\fs18\ul Weaver}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16.  Identify the symphony by members of the First Viennese School from a brief description FTP each, or for 5 if you need the name of the composer.                    \par 
a. 10:  It starts turbulently in F sharp minor.  The final movement is slow and the players leave the stage one by one, blowing out their candles as they go, until just two violinists are left.\par 
5:  Haydn\par 
\tab Answer: Symphony No. }{\f21\fs18\ul 45}{\f21\fs18  or "}{\f21\fs18\ul Farewell}{\f21\fs18 " Symphony\par 
b. 10:  Like the Symphony No. 40, this work is also in G minor.  It is justly famous for the dramatic opening bars and the unresolved finale.\par 
5:  Mozart\par 
\tab Answer: Symphony No. }{\f21\fs18\ul 25}{\f21\fs18  or "}{\f21\fs18\ul Little G minor}{\f21\fs18 " Symphony\par 
c. 10:  A horn call starts out the symphony; the second movement is a solemn march; the timpani is dominant in the third movement; the finale is broad and sweeping.  Schumann talked about its "heavenly length."\par 
5:  Schubert\par 
\tab Answer: Symphony No. }{\f21\fs18\ul 9}{\f21\fs18  or "}{\f21\fs18\ul Great}{\f21\fs18 
" Symphony  (N.B. This work is rarely referred to as Schubert's Symphony No. 8. If this answer is given, prompt for "Great" to distinguish it from the "Unfinished".)\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 17.  Identify the following Henry James novels from characters for ten points each.\par 
1.  Olive Chancellor, Verena Tarrant, Basil Ransom\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bostonians}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Maggie Verver, Adam Verver, Charlotte Stant\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Golden Bowl}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Kate Croy, Merton Densher, Milly Theale\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Wings of the Dove}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
18.  Answer the following questions about superstring theory FTP each.\par 
1.  Superstring theory posits that in addition to the four dimensions of space\_time we see in the everyday world, there are how many additional compact dimensions?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul six}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  By means of the GSO projection, what particles with negative mass\_squared and hence superluminal speeds are eliminated?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tachyons}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Compact dimensions are thought to have sizes given by a combination of the gravitational constant, Planck\rquote s constant, and the speed of light.  That size, approximately 10 to the \endash 33rd centimeters, is given what name?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Planck}{\f21\fs18  length\par 
\par 
19.  Answer these questions about proto-Indo-European for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  (10 points)  He predicted that laryngeal consonant sounds, like p' (puh) and g' (ghuh), did not exist in proto-Indo-European.  Name this Swiss structuralist.\par 
\tab Answer:  Ferdinand }{\f21\fs18\ul Saussure}{\f21\fs18 \par 

2.  (10 points) Saussure's prediction was validated with the discovery and decipherment of this ancient language, spoken by a Bronze Age people long-forgotten and known only by name from the Bible.  Excavation of their library at modern-day Bogazkoy also y
ielded the long-dead Indo-European languages Palaic and Luvian.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Hittite}{\f21\fs18  (accept}{\f21\fs18\ul  Hattian}{\f21\fs18 , but not Hattic or Hurrian)\par 
3.  (5 points) Proto-Indo-European scholars believe that virtually no words began with this letter.  However, due to consonant shifting, it is very common in many Indo-European languages today.\par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul B}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  (5 points) The lack of the initial \ldblquote B\rdblquote  in proto-Indo-European has led many linguists to propose this alternate reconstruction of the proto-Indo-European consonant system.\par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Glottalic}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
20.  Name these turn-of-the-century Russians FTP each.\par 
1.  This Transport Minister directed Russia\rquote s industrial boom in the 1890s and served as Prime Minister during the Revolution of 1905.\par 
\tab Answer:   Sergei }{\f21\fs18\ul Witte}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This Ukrainian priest led workers on a march to the Winter Palace in 1905; troops opened fire, killing over 100 people in what became known as Bloody Sunday.\par 
\tab Answer:   Georgei }{\f21\fs18\ul Gapon\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  Becoming Premier after the Revolution of 1905, he introduced agrarian reforms before his assassination in 1911.\par 
\tab Answer:   Peter }{\f21\fs18\ul Stolypin\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
Identify these nineteenth century astronomers FTP each.\par 
1.  Widely believed to be Whitman's "Learned Astronomer," he recalculated the positions of bodies in the solar system, measured the speed of light with Michelson, and served as the first president of the American Astronomical Society.\par 
\tab Answer: Simon }{\f21\fs18\ul Newcomb}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Appointed to teach astronomy at the Ecole Polytechnique, he calculated the position of Neptune from irregularities in Uranus' orbit.  Galle and d'Arrest found the planet in thirty minutes.\par 
\tab Answer:  Urbain Jean Joseph }{\f21\fs18\ul Le Verrier\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  She was awarded a gold medal by the Danish king for her discovery of a  telescopic comet.  Teaching at Vassar for twenty\_three years, she was the first woman elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\par 
\tab Answer: Maria }{\f21\fs18\ul Mitchell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 Identify the following concepts related to natural selection for ten points each.\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 1.  The phenomenon where small series of isolated populations come to differ from one another due to allele frequencies changing drastically by chance alone.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul genetic drift}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Sewall-Wright}{\f21\fs18  effect\par 
2.  The effect by which a certain species may become genetically depleted due to a catastrophe that leaves only a small portion of the gene pool.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul bottleneck }{\f21\fs18 effect\par 
3.  This type of selection discriminates against both extremes, since median individuals have the greatest fitness. An example is human infants, where infants of intermediate weight have the greatest chance of survival.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul stabilizing}{\f21\fs18  selection\par 
\par 
}}