{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{
\f2010\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title Its successor states were the Khanates of  Kazan, Astrakhan, and the Crimea}{\author Brian Rostron}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere 
\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Iowa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

1. It is told by a womanly man with long, blond hair who inspires comparison to a gelding.  Three men seek death and are directed to a trove of gold.  While the third goes for food, the other two plot to kill him and are then poisoned by the food he brings
 them.  At the conclusion of this tale about the unnatural love of money, its teller makes a pitch for money in return for forgiveness.  FTP name this Canterbury tale.\par 
\tab Answer:  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Pardoner}{\f21\fs18 \rquote s Tale\par 
\par 
2. In the nematic phase of these substances, molecules ha
ve a preferred orientation while their positions are distributed at random.  Some exhibit a cholesteric phase in which the application of a pressed hand on a black surface shows temperature variations through color patterns.  For 10 points, identify these 
substances, used in the displays of watches and calculators. \par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul liquid crystal}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
3. Its successor states were the Khanates of  Kazan, Astrakhan, and the Crimea.  Also known as the Kipchak Khanate, it was founded by a grandson of Genhis Khan, Batu 
Khan.  Ruling over southern Russia for nearly two centuries, it was established following the sack of Kiev in 1240.  FTP name this Central Asian empire eventually overcome by Timur.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Golden Horde}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

4. The first part consists of a social critique of contemporary conditions and criticizes the practice of enclosure and the excessive use of the death penalty.  In the second part, Hythloday describes a six-hour workday, communal ownership of goods, and vo
luntary euthanasia.  The kingdom is divided into fifty-four shires and ruled by a benevolent prince chosen by the island council.  FTP name this 1516 work about an ideal society by Sir Thomas More.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Utopia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

5. Some of the figures in this painting are seemingly superfluous:  Mercury stands at the far left, dispelling clouds from above trees laden with golden fruit.  A Cupid on the wing aims his little bow, but is probably only there by grace of his mother Venu
s, above whom he hovers.  The action takes place on the right.  The West Wind, Zephyrus, p
ursues a virginal Chloris whom he will rape.  Chloris is then shown transformed, bedecked with flowers, as the title character.  For 10 points, name this Botticelli allegorical work.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Primavera}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Allegory of Spring}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

6. Their cranial volume averaged one thousand cubic centimeters. With jutting brow ridges and receding foreheads, they were the first hominids to master fire and inhabit caves.  Arising about 1.6 million years ago, it was also the first to leave the Africa
n savanna as evidenced by notable fossils from Indonesia and China. What hominid species, for 10 points, is thought to descend from Homo habilis and be an ancestor of Homo sapiens. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Homo erectus}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on }{\f21\fs18\ul Java}{\f21\fs18  man or }{\f21\fs18\ul Peking}{\f21\fs18  man)\par 
\par 

7. In 1881, he and a tennis partner won the National Doubles Championship.  Three years later, he became chief engineer at the Midvale Steel Company, where he introduced the concept of time study.  Later as general manager of the Manufacturing Investment C
ompany, he developed the principles of efficiency that became known as scientific management.  FTP name this management reformer whose innovative design for a Y-shaped putter was banned by the USGA.\par 
\tab Answer:  Samuel W. }{\f21\fs18\ul Taylor}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. The pope is a victim of this title character\rquote s trickery, and Charles V is entertained by his magical tricks.  The beauty of Helen, \ldblquote the face that launched a thousand ships,\rdblquote 
 causes him to continue his assoication with evil forces.  His comical and impudent servant is Wagner.  FTP name this learned scholar and theologian, the subject of a 1588 Marlowe play.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Dr. Faustus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

9. In the eighteenth century, his name was invoked by Adam Weishaupt, and in the twentieth century he inspired German socialists.  A Thracian by birth, he deserted from the Roman army, but was recaptured.  Along with his companions, he sought refuge on Mou
nt Vesuvius and later they defeated the two consuls in 72.  His goal was to cross the Alps and have the slaves disperse to their homelands, but they balked at leaving Italy.  In 71 BC, he was d
efeated and killed by Crassus.  FTP name this former gladiator.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Spartacus\par 
}{\f21\fs18   \par 

10. He discovered orbital electron capture and, with Felix Bloch, measured the nautron's magnetic moment.  While working at Los Alamos, he worked on atomic detonators; after the war he developed the liquid hydrogen bubble chamber with which he discovered m
any resonance particles. For 10 points, name this physicist, also known for his work with his geologist son Walter on the extinction of the dinosaurs. \par 
\tab Answer: Luis }{\f21\fs18\ul Alvarez}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

11. After the Tropical Belt Coal Company went into liquidation, Axel Heyst continued to live on Samurban. Heyst is unaware of Mr. Schomberg's hatred for him until he meets Lena. Heyst, in deep with gamblers, attempts to stave off Schomberg's evil plans, bu
t Lena is shot accidentally as the gamblers turn on each other. Lena's knife becomes a symbol of triumph in this 1915 story subtitled "An Island Tale." For 10 points, name this Joseph Conrad work.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Victory}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. Caused by a Corynebacterium bac
illus, it infects humans by lodging in the throat or through flesh wounds.  Danger occurs when infection swells throat tissues and blocks respiratory airways. Toxins secreted by the bacteria may also lead to heart failure. For 10 points, name this vector, 
detected with the Schick test and one of the diseases prevented by the DPT vaccine. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul diphtheria}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab \par 
13. He rather liked things from the gods.  For example, he ruled over Argos with a scepter that had been made by Hephaestus.  The god Hermes gave him
 a horned lamb that had a golden fleece.  The only catch was he had to sacrifice the lamb to Artemis.  He didn't like giving back to the gods so well, though.  He sacrificed the meat and bones to Artemis, but saved the golden fleece for himself.  His decla
ration that whoever owned the fleece would rule the realm eventually set his own brother against him.  For 10 points, who was the character from Greek myth who fed his brother, Thyestes, one of his sons, but paid for it with his own life?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Atreus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

14. Blanik is a mountain in southern Bohemia which was considered the Valhalla of the Hussite heroes, while Tabor was a stronghold of the Hussites.   Arka was the leader of a band of Bohemian Amazons, while Vltava is the native name for the Moldau River.  
The four also name symphonic poems that together with }{\i\f21\fs18 Vy ehrad}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 The High Citadel}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Z Ceskych luho a haju}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 From Bohemia's Woods and Fields}{\f21\fs18 
, round out this cycle of six.  Composed in the 1870's, for 10 points, what is this Smetana homage to his homeland?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ma Vlast}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\i\f21\fs18\ul My Fatherland}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

15. It began in Honan and soon spread to the entire country.  Communal kitchens were established so women could fully participate in production, and ideological purity was emphasized over technical expertise.  Small backyard steel furnaces were set up in t
housands of villages, although in their zeal peasants often melted down their tools to make more steel.  By 1960, it was clear that this plan to industrialize China through mass manpower had failed miserably.  FTP name this event.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Great Leap Forward}{\f21\fs18      \par 
\par 

16. When it was founded in 1880 as the western terminus of the Chicago and North Western Railway, it was named Mahto, the Sioux word for "bear".  Five years later, it would have become territory capital had it not been for a governor's veto.  For the 400 y
ears before 1800, however, it was the site of the capital of the Arikara Indian nation.  For 10 points, name this U.S. city on the Missouri River, which is now named for an early fur trader and which is the capital of South Dakota?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pierre}{\f21\fs18  ("peer")}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 

17. Born of peasant stock in the village of Hobitza, naturally he was a shepherd in the Carpathian Mountains as a youth.  In 1904 he landed in Paris where he would work the rest of his life.  With his famous comment "No other trees can grow in the shadow o
f an oak," he refused an apprenticeship with Rodin.  He thus began creating a distinctive style, based on his feeling that "what is real is not the external form but the essence of things."  For 10 points, name this sculptor of }{\i\f21\fs18 
Table of Silence}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Bird in Space}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Constantin }{\f21\fs18\ul Brancusi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. Although not thought of as an artist, he is credited with introducing the mezzotint into England.  Although not thought of as a naval figure, he commanded the remnants of his slain uncle\rquote 
s fleet, losing to Blake in the Mediterranean and turning to piracy in the Azores.  He is thought of, however, as a military leader on land, leading the Royalist cavalry at Marston Moor and Naseby.  FTP name this prince and
 noted figure of the English Civil Wars.\par 
\tab Answer:  Prince }{\f21\fs18\ul Rupert}{\f21\fs18  of the Rhine or the Palatinate\par 
\par 

19. Found on the ventral side abdomen, they number from one to four pairs and house minute tubes which open onto spigot structures.  A mixture of proteins, including fibroin, harden in these organs and are released as solid strands which can be used for, a
mong other things, wrapping prey and making egg cases.  For 10 points, name these arachnid organs which conduct and hold silk. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul spinneret}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\tab \par 
20. It principally developed from the rustic elements of sarugaku, but the adaptations made by Kanami from }{\i\f21\fs18 Genji Monogatari}{\f21\fs18  and the }{\i\f21\fs18 Heike}{\f21\fs18 
 inspired his son Zeami to create plays suffused with a delicacy and spirituality descended from Zen.  FTP, name this form of Japanese drama in which the figures are masked and the narrative is performed by actors and a chorus.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul No}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
T1. The probable progenitors of Type 1a supernovae, these objects remain at the centers of planetary nebulae after the outer layers of a star 
are dispersed.  Nearby examples include Procyon B and Sirius B, both about the size of the Earth and mass of the Sun.  What class of stellar objects, for ten points, will our Sun likely join in 5 billion years.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul white dwarf}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 

T2. In 1605, he visited Bristol, England, as a house guest of Sir Ferdinando Gorges.  Nine years later, he accompanied John Smith on two expeditionary voyages to the New World and was captured by the Spanish.  He later escaped with John Slany, the treasure
r of Newfoundland Company.  He returned home in 1619 to the Patuxet tribe, only to witness them die of plague. FTP, name this Native American who went on to help the Pilgrims. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tisquantum}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Squanto}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab \par 

T3. Belgian biochemist Christian de Duve identified them in 1955 with the aid of an electron microscope.  Originating as buds on the trans-Golgi network, they have an acidic interior which can destroy other worn out organelles and cellular invaders.  For 1
0 points, name these organelles which take in extracellular molecules by fusing with endosomes.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul lysosome}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
While a member of Parliament, he composed 'Bermuda' in honor of colonial power. He also composed a 'Horatian Ode' in honor of Oliver Cromwell.  A metaphysical poet, he is best remembered for 'The Garden' and for 'To His Coy Mistress.'  FTP, name him.
\par 
\tab Answer: Andrew }{\f21\fs18\ul Marvell}{\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Iowa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. Identify these avatars of Vishnu for 10 points apiece.\par 
1.    Among the exploits of this charming avatar was the killing of Ravana, the demon king of Sri Lanka, for having abducted his wife, Sita.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Rama-chandra}{\f21\fs18  (Do not accept "Parashu-rama".)\par 
2.    This dark-colored avatar, usually depicted as blue, defeated the demon-king Kamsa, and in the Mahabharata he was Arjuna's charioteer.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Krishna\par 
}{\f21\fs18 
3.    This avatar has not yet occurred.  Vishnu is to appear at the end of the world cycle, seated on a white horse, with drawn sword blazing like a comet, for the final destruction of the wicked, the renewal of created, and the restoration of purity.
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kalki}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. Name these plays by Brecht from a brief description FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab Vlasova sacrifices for her son and eventually adopts his communist views, carrying a flag in the Russian revolution.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Mother}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab Three gods seek a kind person and find only Shen Te, a local prostitute.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Good Woman}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Person}{\f21\fs18 ) }{\i\f21\fs18\ul of Setzuan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.    This play, set to music by Kurt Weill, tells the story of a community of pleasure-seekers which eventually collapses because of the bourgeois decadence of its society.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Rise and Fall of the City  Mahoganny}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3. Answer these questions about the Netherlands FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This son of William the Silent drove the Spanish from the northern Netherlands in the 1590s.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Maurice}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This stadholder from 1672 to 1702 landed at Torbay in 1688.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul William III}{\f21\fs18  of both Orange and Great Britain\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab This name was given to the Dutch Republic from 1795 to 1806 after its defeat by the French Revolutionary armies.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Batavian}{\f21\fs18  Republic\par 
\par 

4. You are looking at a silicate of magnesium and ferrous iron with an approximate Mohs hardness of 6.75. You probably got it from lavas of Vesuvius and Monte Somma or in the Eiffel district of Germany. Its most notable feature though, is its gray-green co
lor. For 10 points each: \par 
1.  Give the common English group name for this isomorphous mineral series, believed to be quite abundant in the upper mantle. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul olivine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Give the French word for olivine, often applied to gem quality specimens of the mineral.  It is a also a birthstone. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul peridot}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Finally, yellow-green peridot is given another name derived from the Greek words for "gold" and "stone." Give it.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chrysolite}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. Given a description of an operatic title object, name it for 10 or for 5 if you need the composer behind the title creation.\par 
1. (10 points) The title character plots his revenge against Eisenstein, because the latter had let him oversleep during Carnival, forcing him to walk home in the title costume in broad open daylight.\par 
(5 points) Johann Strauss\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bat}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Die }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Fledermaus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) It audibly interrupts Ben as he's getting his nerves up to propose to Lucy.  Later, Ben uses it to serve his ends.\par 
(5 points) Gian-Carlo Menotti\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Telephone}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) It brings Tamino and his love, Pamina, through the trials of fire and water.\par 
(5 points) Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Magic Flute}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Die }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Zauberfl\'9ate}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. Answer the following questions about classical architecture for 10 points apiece\par 
1.  What order of classical column was used in building the Parthenon?\par 
     \tab  Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Doric}{\f21\fs18  order (Do not accept "Roman Doric" order)\par 
2.  This horizontal piece crowned the entablature in Greek buildings, resting between the pediment and frieze.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cornice}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This "fourth" order of classical column actually rivals the doric as the oldest.  What is this simplest, unfluted order of classical column?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tuscan}{\f21\fs18  order\par 
\par 
6. For the stated number of points, identify the data structures given a short description of each. \par 
1. (5 points) This fundamental data structure allows elements to be pushed onto it and popped off of it and is quite useful in recursive algorithms. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul stack}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) This type of binary tree, named after its inventors, was the first tree to feature balance mechanisms in order to guarantee logarithmic search times. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul AVL}{\f21\fs18  tree \par 
3. (15 points) This structure efficiently implements priority queues.  It provides access to the minimum element in constant time and deletions of the minimum element in logarithmic worst-case time.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul binary heap}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7. It is the condition in which one averts one's gaze from facts, or options and choices, that at some level one knows to be present. For the stated number of points:\par 
1. (5 points) What two-word philosophical term is this, an implication of disbelief or breakdown or trust?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bad Faith}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul mauvaise foi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) What 20th Century French philosopher was known for his discussion of the Bad Faith principle possibly embracing it in his post-World War II work }{\i\f21\fs18 The Psychology of the Imagination}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: Jean-Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Sartre}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) What Sartre character embraces a sense of bad faith as the protagonist horrified by the absurdity of human life and the ugliness of its pretenses Sartre's 1938 work }{\i\f21\fs18 Nausea}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: Antoine }{\f21\fs18\ul Roquentin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. Fun with complex numbers.  Answer the following for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (10 points)  For any real number, it states that: parenthesis cosine x plus i times sine x end parenthesis to the nth power equals cosine nx plus i times sine nx. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul de Moivre}{\f21\fs18 's theorem\par 
2. (5 points) Using de Moivre's theorem or any other method, evaluate "e raised to the open parenthesis i times pi, close parenthesis". \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul -1}{\f21\fs18  (negative one)\par 
3. (15 points) These are points in the complex plane where a function blows up.  A simple one occurs at z equals 0 for the function 1 over z.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pole}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  \par 
9. Identify each of the following Judges of Israel, from the Old Testament, FTP.\par 
1.  This judge made a vow to sacrifice to God whatever would come out of the doors of his house upon his return from a successful battle.  Unfortunately for him, this ended up being his own daughter.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Jephthah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This only woman judge joined forces with army commander Barak to defeat the "forces of the kings of Canaan", led by Sisera, the general of Jabin.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Deborah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This third judge's "left-handed" dagger diplomacy dealt with Eglon the king of Moab.  Eglon was so fat that his stab wound didn't bleed.  Palace guards' assumptions that he was long on "the throne" allowed this judge's timely escape.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ehud\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
10. Answer these questions about the Balkans FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab The Ottoman\rquote s victory over the Serbs at this 1389 battle marked the end of the medieval kingdom of Serbia.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Kosovo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This 1878 treaty would have created a \ldblquote Greater Bulgaria,\rdblquote  a Russian puppet state.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul San Stefano}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab This liberal monarch became the first king of independent Romania in 1877 and ruled until 1914.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Charles I }{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Carol I}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11. Identify these biological things which begin with either "homo" or "hetero" for ten points each.\par 
1. It describes animals such as seals and toothed whales with little or no variation in tooth structure.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul homodont}{\f21\fs18 s \par 
2. Organisms which must obtain their energy by consuming other organisms and not from the environment are given this name.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul heterotroph}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3. An animal's maintenance of its internal temperature by using metabolic processes to counteract environmental temperature fluctuations, it's also known as warm-bloodedness.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul homoiothermy}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul homeothermy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. Name the authors of these Restoration works.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1. }{\i\f21\fs18 All for Love}{\f21\fs18 , 1678\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  John }{\f21\fs18\ul Dryden}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab }{\i\f21\fs18 The Country Wife}{\f21\fs18 , 1675\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  William }{\f21\fs18\ul Wycherley}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab }{\i\f21\fs18 Love for Love}{\f21\fs18 , 1695\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  William }{\f21\fs18\ul Congreve}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. Name these Supreme Court cases FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab In this 1904 case, the court ruled that holding companies designed solely to eliminate competition between two railroads violated anti-trust laws.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Northern Securities Co. v. US}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This 1962 decision stated that federal courts could intervene to correct the unequal distribution of voters in electoral districts.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Baker v. Carr}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab In this 1986 case, the court refused to extend a constitutional right of privacy to homosexual activity.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Bowers v. Hardwick}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. Name these dudes who lived a long time ago FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This man, who flourished around 2370 BC, dominated the Sumerian cities in Mesopotamia and created the first large empire of the ancient Near East.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Sargon}{\f21\fs18  of Akkad  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Sargon}{\f21\fs18  the Great (not Sargon II)\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This founder of the 3rd Dynasty ordered Imhotep to build the Step-Pyramid of Saqqara.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Zoser}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab This Babylonian conquered Jerusalem in 598 and 587.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Nebuchadnezzar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. Identify these parts of a pine needle for ten points each.\par 
1. Ducts carry this substance through the needle so it is available to be exuded in case of any breaks or damage. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul resin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. These spindle-shaped xylem cells conduct water through the needle and the rest of the plant.  They are the equivalent of vessel elements in angiosperms.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tracheid}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3. These phloem cells are similar to tracheids except they conduct sugars and not water.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul sieve}{\f21\fs18  cells \par 
\par 
16. Name the characters from }{\i\f21\fs18 Beowulf}{\f21\fs18  FTSNOP.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab (5) This lord of the Danes despairs of Grendel\rquote s visits to his meadhall until Beowulf arrives.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Hrothgar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab (10) Only this heir to Beowulf and last of his companions helps the hero in his final fight against a dragon.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Wiglaf}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab (15) This prince of the Brondings is Beowulf\rquote s companion in a swimming marathon.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Breca}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. Answer these questions about the Washington Naval Armament Conference FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab The conference was convened in this year.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul 1921}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab Japan was limited to this quantity of naval tons in ratio to the 5 of the US and UK by the Naval Armament Limitation Treaty.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul 3}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab This US Secretary of State was a driving force behind the conference.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Charles E. }{\f21\fs18\ul Hughes}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
18. Name the characters from American novels FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This young recruit runs from his battle in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Red Badge of Courage}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Henry Fleming}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This fat, unpleasant woman is Tom Buchanan\rquote s lover in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Great Gatsby}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Myrtle Wilson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab This man is deserted by his wife but raises sons Caleb and Aron in }{\i\f21\fs18 East of Eden}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Adam Trask}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. Giuseppe Occhialini is a lesser-known name in science who should have gotten more credit than he did. Identify the following for the points stated: \par 

1. Working with Patrick Blackett, Occhialini obtained cloud-chamber photographs in 1993 demonstrating the antimatter counterpart of the electron existed. But, an American beat them to publication and later won the Nobel Prize.  Name the particle and the Am
erican for 5 points each. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul positron}{\f21\fs18 , Carl }{\f21\fs18\ul Anderson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Working with Cecil Powell in 1947, Occhialini discovered pions in cosmic ray showers.  However, a Japanese scientist had earlier predicted pion's existence and won a Nobel prize for his work. Name him for 10.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Yukawa}{\f21\fs18  Hideki\par 

3. Blackett and Powell later won Nobels as well.  Occhialini was eventually honored with the naming of the BeppoSAX X-ray satellite.  This satellite played an important role in showing that what violent astronomical phenomena occur not in the Milky Way, bu
t at cosmological distances. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul GRBs}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul gamma-ray burst}{\f21\fs18 s (Note: Beppo is a nickname for Giuseppe)\par 
\par 
20. Name the capital of each of the following states of India for 10 points apiece.\par 
1. West Bengal                \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Calcutta}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Tamil                      \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Madras}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Maharashtra               \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bombay}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
The pain will all go away in a second. Take some morphine. Now, for 10 points apiece: \par 
1. If you replaced one -OH group in a morphine molecule with an -OCH3 (methyl ether) group, what new drug is produced.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul codeine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. If you replaced both -OH groups with acetyl groups of formula -COCH3, what new substance would you have? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul heroin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Morphine derivatives such as codeine and heroine work because their chemical structure is similar to two classes of neurohormones discovered in the 1960s.  Name either. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul endorphin}{\f21\fs18 s or }{\f21\fs18\ul enkephalin}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}}