{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}{\s2 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title PACKET FOR ACF NATIONALS 1999}{\author Richard Grimes}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd 
\linemod0\linex0\cols1 \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Kentucky (Kelly McKenzie)}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  This 
disorder usually occurs due to abnormally low activity of the enzyme hexosaminidase A, allowing the sphingolipid ganglioside to accumulate in the brain. The affected patient loses motor abilities, develops a red spot on the retina, and eventually suffers p
aralysis before death.  FTP, name this autosomal recessive disorder also called Amaurotic Familial Idiocy, most frequently found among people of eastern European Jewish origin.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tay-Sachs}{\f21\fs18  disease (or }{\f21\fs18\ul cerebromacular degeneration}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  Several of the
 obscure images found in this poem, including "yellow-eyed birds", "electric moons", and "giant serpents devoured by bedbugs", would inspire paintings by artists like Salvador Dali. Composed of one-hundred lines divided into twenty-five quatrains, it descr
ibes the magical liberation of the title object from the control of its haulers and the burdens of commerce, its exhilaration when faced with strange new lands and experiences, and its final weariness and longing for death. FTP, name this 1871 Symbolist ma
sterpiece that served as a showcase for the talents of a young Arthur Rimbaud (ram-BO).\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Drunken Boat}{\f21\fs18  (or Le }{\f21\fs18\ul Bateau ivre}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 

3.  Rising as high as 1,100 feet, from above it looks like a long, blunt-headed whale.  It is two miles long and nearly eight miles in circumference.  In 1873, William Christie Gosse became the first Westerner to sight it, but it was long known to the indi
genous peoples, as evidenced by caves and rock shelters decorated with spectacular paintings that dot its base.  Returned
 to the Aborigines in 1985, for 10 points, what is this awesome prominence of red sandstone in the south-western corner of Australia's Northern Territory?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ayers Rock}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4.  His }{\i\f21\fs18 Elements of Military Art and Science}{\f21\fs18 
, a course of lectures delivered at West Point, was published in book form in 1846, and later became the standard textbook for volunteer officers in the Civil War.  As supreme commander of the Western theater in 1861, he displayed considerable administrati
ve ability in forming effective fig
hting units from the masses of volunteers, and earned a promotion to general-in-chief of the Union forces in 1862.  Often at odds with his subordinate generals and unable to develop an effective offensive strategy, he was replaced by Grant in 1864.  FTP na
me this Union soldier.  \par 
\tab Answer: Henry }{\f21\fs18\ul Halleck}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5.  It eliminates infinite quantities appearing in calculations of particle interactions at high energies by postulating undiscovered particles such as squarks, photinos, and gluinos. Connecting the elementa
ry constituents of matter with the carriers of the fundamental forces, this concept relates transformations in spin to transformations in space-time.  FTP, name this concept relating fermions and bosons.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul supersymmetry }{\f21\fs18 (or }{\f21\fs18\ul susy}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 6.  Its intended sequel, entitled }{\i\f21\fs18 The Wolf}{\f21\fs18 
, was still unwritten at the time of its author's death.  The protagonist's wife, Laura Dearborn, is bored and unhappy, and dabbles in an affair with a former suitor, but when her husband, the grain speculator Curtis Jadwin, is ruin
ed financially, she returns to him and their love is renewed.  FTP, name this novel which was itself a sequel to }{\i\f21\fs18 The Octopus}{\f21\fs18 , the middle section of Frank Norris' unfinished }{\i\f21\fs18 Epic of the Wheat}{\f21\fs18  trilogy.
\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Pit}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 

7.  This god was often associated with Seker and Osiris because of his role as a mortuary god, and the sacred bull Apis had his stall in this god's great temple.  Represented as a man in mummy form, wearing a skull cap and a short false beard, he joined wi
th his companion Sekhmet and the god Nefertem to comprise the Memphite Triad of deities, and was associated by the Greeks with Hephaestus because of his role as a craftsman.  FTP, name this god who, according to the Memphite Theology, created mankind.
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ptah}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Phthah}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

8.  First discovered from measurements made in Zagreb of a 1908 event, it is inferred to be a density contrast where the compressional wave velocity sharply increases.  Likely caused by structural phase changes in olivine or other rocks, it lies approximat
ely 20 miles below continents and 5 miles below ocean floors.  FTP, name this discontinuity between the Earth\rquote s crust and mantle.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Moho}{\f21\fs18 rovicic }{\f21\fs18\ul discontinuity\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 

9.  Early in this war, German Protestant forces were defeated at Vimory and Auneau by the Holy League, allowing the Holy League to take Paris, despite a setback in the Battle of Coutras.  Thus, Henry III was forced to retreat to Chartres and accept the Edi
ct of Union in 1588.  Unable to endure this humiliation, Henry III had Henry, duke of Guise, assassinated,
 and then teamed with the King of Navarre to besiege the Holy League in Paris, ultimately leading to the ascension of the king of Navarre to the French throne after the assassination of Henry III.  FTP, name this last of the Wars of Religion, named for the
 moniker shared by the leaders involved.\par 
\tab Answer: War of the }{\f21\fs18\ul Three Henrys}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on Wars of Religion)\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 10.  The title of this play comes from the protagonist's description of the period between the happiness of childhood and the security of old age. Unabl
e to marry her fiance before his death in World War I, the main character marries Sam Evans, has an affair with Dr. Ned Darrell which produces a son named Gordon, and, after Sam's death, settles into a comfortable marriage with the novelist Charlie Marsden
. FTP, name this drama whose nine acts describe the life of Nina Leeds as told by Eugene O'Neill.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Strange Interlude\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
11.  This philosopher completed his doctorate at Harvard in 1932, becoming a full professor there in 1948.  His argument that expe
rience counts for or against our entire body of beliefs in a holistic manner, and that little that is systematic can be said about the meanings of particular sentences, was expounded in 1953's "Two Dogmas of Empiricism."  This lead to his most famous doctr
ine, the indeterminacy of translation, which holds that there are no objective facts about which words and sentences have the same meanings, put forth in 1960's }{\i\f21\fs18 Word and Object}{\f21\fs18 
.  For 10 points, who is this most influential post-World War II American philosopher, author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Pursuit of Truth}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Roots of Reference}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer:  Willard Van Orman }{\f21\fs18\ul Quine}{\f21\fs18     \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
12.  In 1791, this novel was published in a complete version of 120 chapters, but the final 40 may have been forged by the publishers. It tells specifically of a young poet and his romances with an assortment of cousins and maid servants, including Daiyu a
nd his eventual wife Baochai, and in general recounts the decline of the Chia family.  FTP, name this novel concerning Paoyu by Ts'ao Hsueh-ch'in, generally regarded as the greatest work of traditional Chinese narrative.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Dream of the Red Chamber}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18 The Story of the Stone}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 A Dream of Red Mansions}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 Hung lou meng}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 
Shih-t'ou chi}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 

13.  Equivalents include assuming three non-collinear points always lie on a circle.  Or that the sum of the angles of a triangle is equal to two right angles.  Unproven for over two millenia, in the 19th century it was realized that not assuming its truth
 led to the hyperbolic geometries of Gauss, Bolyai, and Lobachevsky.  FTP, identify this axiom of Euclid.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul parallel}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul fifth}{\f21\fs18 ) axiom\par 
\par 

14.  Among this emperor's non-military activities were the abandonment of the province of Dacia and his attempt to establish the worship of Sol Invictus at the center of Roman state religion.  His military achievements are probably better known, and includ
e defeating the Vandals in Pannonia, repulsing an incursion into Italy by the Alamanni and Iuthungi, ending the Gallic empire at Chalons by defeating Tetricus, erecting pro
tective walls around the city of Rome, and putting down revolts in Palmyra instigated by Zenobia.  FTP, name this leader called "restorer of the Roman world", who succeeded Quintillus as emperor in 270.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Aurelian}{\f21\fs18  (or Lucius Domitius }{\f21\fs18\ul Aurelianus}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

15.  It was banned in Nazi Germany, and Fascist politics kept it from winning the Mussolini Cup at the 1937 Venice Film Festival, but this pacifist masterpiece was awarded a special prize there anyway.  Stateside, it became the first foreign language pictu
re
 to earn a best picture nomination in Hollywood.  Drawn from its director's experience as a World War I P.O.W., it centers upon the relationship between French prisoner Boeildieu, played by Pierre Fresnay, and his captor, von Rauffenstein, brilliantly port
rayed by Erich von Stroheim--both of whose aristocratic worlds have been destroyed by the War.  For 10 points, name this most profound of anti-war films, directed by Jean Renoir.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Grand Illusion}{\f21\fs18  (or, }{\i\f21\fs18 La Grande Illusion}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 16. This book is divid
ed into three distinct parts, indicative of its diverse authorship, ostensibly by Hebrews in the Babylonian Captivity, but probably written much later.  A pastiche written in Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic, the god Yahweh is only referred to by name or by the 
title Adonai ("Lord") in the first section.  Including a confession of the sins of Israel and poems of lamentation with Jerusalem as a widow weeping for her lost children, in the Vulgate it also includes The Letter of Jeremiah\emdash 
which is plainly a separate b
ook--as its sixth chapter, perhaps because its putative author was the scribe of Jeremiah.  For 10 points, what is this apocryphal book which is placed between Ecclesiasticus and The Letter of Jeremiah in the traditional canon?\par 
\tab Answer:  The Book of }{\f21\fs18\ul Baruch}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
17.  Given to newborns to prevent hemorraghic disease, one form is synthesized by bacteria in the human colon.  Another form consists of several napthoquinone compounds found in the leaves of plants, including alfalfa, where it was isolated in 1939.  It
 is necessary for the synthesis of prothrombin and several other coagulation factors.  FTP, name this fat-soluble vitamin whose deficiency impairs blood clotting.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Vitamin }{\f21\fs18\ul K}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 

18.  The end of this empire came when the forces of Issihak II were defeated at Tondibi by the Moroccans. Its golden age began when Sonni Ali defeated the Mossi, Dogon, and Fulani during the 1460s, and took control of Jenne and Timbuktu.  Despite internal 
strife which led to a successful coup against Sonni Baru led by Muhammed I Askia, this empire dominated northwest African trade for over a century.  FTP, identify this empire centered around the middle reaches of the Niger River, with capital at Gao.
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Songhai}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Songhay}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
19.  This author, whose posthumously published work includes "October Ferry to Gabriola" and "Dark as the Grave Wherein My Friend is Laid", suffered from pnigophobia, the fear of choking on fishbones.  His chronic alcoholism is described in "Lunar Caustic"
, and in "Ultramarine" he showed the influence of Conrad Aiken, in whose autobiography }{\i\f21\fs18 Ushant}{\f21\fs18 
 he appeared as Hambro.  But he is probably best known for a 1947 novel set in Mexico describing the last day in the life of Geoffrey Firmin. FTP, name this author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Under the Volcano}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: (Clarence) Malcolm }{\f21\fs18\ul Lowry\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
20.  This composer's parents considered music to be an improper career, but finally allowed this person to enter the Paris Conservatore at the age of 12. Born in 1892 and taught by Koechlin and Ravel, this composer of }{\i\f21\fs18 Six Chansons Francaise}
{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Pastorale for Flute and Piano}{\f21\fs18  avoided the heavy harmonies and repetitive forms of German music in favor of a light, elegant style. After a long career, she died in 1983, having composed such pieces as the }{
\i\f21\fs18 Bird-Seller}{\f21\fs18  ballet, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Master}{\f21\fs18 , based on the Ionesco work, and }{\i\f21\fs18 Games in the Open Air}{\f21\fs18  for two pianos. FTP, name this only female member of "Les Six".\par 
\tab Answer: Germaine }{\f21\fs18\ul Tailleferre}{\f21\fs18  (tie-fair)\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 T1.  It was sometimes called the Commonweal of Christ, and initially consisted of one hundred participants.  This \ldblquote petition in boots\rdblquote 
 ended ignominiously when its leader and his chief lieutenants were arrested for walking on the grass in Washington DC.  Consisting of over 500 people, this group marched to Washington to advocate projects for public works and the fre
e coinage of silver.  FTP name this 1893 army of the unemployed.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Coxey}{\f21\fs18 \rquote s Army\par 
\par 
T2.  When his American companies were bought by Peter Widener and William Elkins in 1901, this businessman went to London to convert its subways from steam to electricity.  Rising from a clerk at a Philadelphia commission broker\rquote 
s to owner of his own banking house, this entrepeneur was jailed in 1871 for misappropriation of funds, but regained his wealth in the Panic of 1873, and developed the syndicate of companies tha
t built Chicago's mass-transit system.  FTP, identify this financer who served as the basis for the character of Frank Algernon Cowperwood in Theodore Dreiser's }{\i\f21\fs18 Trilogy of Desire}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Charles Tyson }{\f21\fs18\ul Yerkes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 T3.  This literary group's belief in the poet
's role as a craftsman and the need for concrete language in poetry can be seen in such works as "Tristia" and "Foreign Sky". Centered in Saint Petersburg and associated with the magazine "Apollo", its founder was Nikolai Gumilyov, while its greatest membe
r was Gumilyov's wife.  For 10 points name this early 20th century literary movement, that included the poets Sergei Gorodetskii and Osip Mandelshtam, as well as Anna Akhmatova.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Acmeists}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Akmeisty}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
This artist was born to a family that veritab
ly bled paint--Jean-Honore Fragonard was a grandfather.  Enjoying the weekly tutoring of Corot by age 20, it was a trip to the Louvre to copy Rubens that led to fame via a change in artistic direction.  Meeting Edouard Manet there in 1868, the painter beca
me the painted in his famous 1868 }{\i\f21\fs18 The Balcony}{\f21\fs18  as well as in several other of his works, including }{\i\f21\fs18 The Repose}{\f21\fs18 
.  Often featuring family members such as sister Edma and husband Eugene Manet (the master's brother) in her work, she was praised by fellow impressionists for her subtle rendering of color in such works as }{\i\f21\fs18 Peasant Hanging Out the Washing}{
\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Young Girl With a Parrot}{\f21\fs18 .  For 10 points, who was this artist of }{\i\f21\fs18 Hide-and-Seek}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Cradle}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer:  Berthe }{\f21\fs18\ul Morisot}{\f21\fs18  (more-ee-SO)\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 This republic's Ocean Island was an important producer of phosphates until it was mined out in 1981. Under a treaty of friendship, the U.S. has relinquished its claims to this country\rquote 
s Cantor and Christmas Islands.  Its nearest neighbors are Nauru to the southwest and Tokelau and T
uvalu to the south.  Until 1997, this country surrounded the point at which the International Date Line crosses the equator, and it consists of the Gilbert, Line, and Phoenix groups.  FTP, name this group of islands which gained independence from Great Bri
tain in 1972 and whose capital is Tarawa.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Republic of }{\f21\fs18\ul Kiribati}{\f21\fs18  (pronounced Kiribass)\par 
\par 
This physicist used Laplace transforms to study transient network currents, paving the way for long-distance telephone service.  The namesake of a function relat
ed to the integral of the Dirac delta function, he anticipated special relativity by postulating that electric charge increases with velocity.  FTP, name this British scientist who, independently of Arthur Kennelly, predicted the existence of the ionospher
e.\par 
\tab Answer: Oliver }{\f21\fs18\ul Heaviside}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
The overall effect of this church council, which declared Jerusalem and Constantinople patriarchates, was to give the church a more stable institutional character.  Convoked by the emperor Marcian and held in what is now Kadik
oy, Turkey, this council acknowledged the orthodoxy of Theodoret, excommunicated the Monophysite Dioscorus, and approved the Tome of Pope Leo I confirming two distinct natures of Christ.  FTP, name this Christian church council of 451 which approved the cr
eed of Nicaea (ny-see-uh).\par 
\tab Answer: Council of }{\f21\fs18\ul Chalcedon}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
This scientific work is a long dialogue between Eleutherius, an interested bystander; Philoponus, who advocates the three-principle system of Paracelsus; Themistius, who represents the four-element
 system of Aristotle; and Carneades, whom the author uses as a mouthpiece for his belief that matter is composed of corpuscles. FTP, name this 1661 dialogue concerning the nature and number of elements, written by Robert Boyle.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Sceptical Chymist\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Kentucky}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  Identify these important battles in the Carolinas during the American Revolutionary War for 10 points each.\par 
1.  This August 1780 battle was a crushing defeat for Horatio Gates. After Cornwallis's first attack, 2,000 of Gates's troops fled, leading to a British rout.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Camden}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Regrouping after Camden, Americans under Daniel Morgan defeated the forces of Tarleton at this January 1781 battle.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Cowpens\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  Future Polish revolutionary Tadeusz Kosciusko led American troops in this numerical June 1781 battle, but nonetheless, the Americans suffered defeat at the hands of Lord Rawdon.\par 
\tab Answer: Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Ninety-Six}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2.  Identify the following American composers for the stated number of points.\par 
a)  (5 points) His monumental }{\i\f21\fs18 Second Piano Sonata}{\f21\fs18  is subtitled \ldblquote Concord, Massachusetts, 1840-1860.\rdblquote  \tab \par 
\tab Answer:  Charles }{\f21\fs18\ul Ives}{\f21\fs18 \par 
b)  (10 points)  This New Yorker is best known for his three string quartets, his 1955 }{\i\f21\fs18 Variations}{\f21\fs18  for orchestra and his 1969 }{\i\f21\fs18 Concerto for Orchestra}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Elliott }{\f21\fs18\ul Carter}{\f21\fs18 \par 
c)  (15 points)  Born in 1943 in Chicago, in 1982 he became the St. Louis Symphony\rquote s first composer-in-residence.  His most performed piece is the 1994 }{\i\f21\fs18 Concerto for Percussion and Orchestra}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
\tab Answer:  Joseph }{\f21\fs18\ul Schwantner}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
3.  Many British novelists have examined the creative impulse through the eyes of their fellow artists, painters.  FTPE, name these novels based upon descriptions of the artistic main characters, or F5P if you need the name of the author.\par 
1. (10 points) Dick Heldar is an artist who races against time to complete his masterpiece before his eyesight is lost due to a war injury.\par 
(5 points) Rudyard Kipling\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Light That Failed}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) Charles Strickland is a London stockbroker who renounces his wife, children, and business to become a painter, and is loosely based upon Paul Gauguin.\par 
(5 points) W. Somerset Maugham\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Moon and Sixpence}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) Nicholas Dormer is convinced by the actress Miriam Rooth to give up his marriage and Parliament seat to become a portrait painter.\par 
(5 points) Henry James\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tragic Muse}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 4.  The study of fractals has come into vogue in the last few decades, but every idea had to start somewhere. FTSNOP, name these early precursors of fractals, based upon their methods of construction.\par 
1. (5 points) Take the closed interval from 0 to 1, divide it into three equal parts, and remove the middle third. Repeating this process indefinitely produces this set with infinite size and zero length.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cantor}{\f21\fs18  set (or dust)\par 
2. (15 points) Begin with a square.  Divide it into nine smaller squares.  Remove the central one and repeat this process indefinitely on the remaining squares.  The result is this two-dimensional analog to the Cantor set.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sierpinski}{\f21\fs18  carpet (or set; do not accept Sierpinski gasket or triangle)\par 
3. (10 points) Begin with an equilateral triangle, remove the central third from each side and add another equilateral triangle at each location.  Repeat on each new triangle, and the result is this shape with infinite perimeter and finite area. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Koch}{\f21\fs18  snowflake (or island)\par 
\par 
5.  FTSNOP, name the Byzantine emperor.\par 
1. (5 points)  This emperor began his new codification of Roman law in 528.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Justinian }{\f21\fs18 I\par 
2. (10 points) This emperor defeated the Bulgarians in battle in 1015, then had thousands of prisoners blinded and sent them led by men blinded in one eye back to their Tsar, who died of fright.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Basil II}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Basil the Bulgar-slayer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) This last Byzantine emperor was overthrown and killed in the Ottoman attack of 1453.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Constantine XI}{\f21\fs18  Palaeologus\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
6. Most self-portraits are pretty standard fare, but occasionally an artist will create a self-portrait which stands out from the crowd. FTPE, name these unique self-portraits from descriptions.\par 

1.  The earliest surviving Italian example of a portrait in tondo form, this circular portrait features the artist at the center, but its most notable features are the distorted window in the top left and the enormous hand in the foreground.  The title of 
this Parmigianino work was used by John Ashbury for the title of a Pulitzer Prize winning poetry collection.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
2.  In the painting within this painting, a headless woman and a barnyard animal can be seen. At the center of the painting proper is the artist, Marc Chagall, standing with one foot upon an easel and holding his palette and brushes with the title deformit
ies.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Self-portrait With Seven Fingers}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Arnold Bocklin stands in the center of this self-portrait, while a musically gifted skeleton stands behind Bocklin's left shoulder.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Self-portrait With Death Playing the Violin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 7.  5-10-15, identify these parts of the pancreas which are named for the scientists who studied them.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 
1.  (5 points) These irregularly shaped patches of endocrine tissue consist of four distinct cell types: beta cells, which produce insulin; alpha cells, which produce glucagon; delta cells, which produce somatostatin; and C cells, whose purpose is unknown.
\par 
\tab Answer: islets or islands of }{\f21\fs18\ul Langerhans}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (10 points) This large main duct of the pancreas collects pancreatic juice and empties into the duodenum. It is usually joined by a bile duct at the ampulla of Vater.\par 
\tab Answer: duct of }{\f21\fs18\ul Wirsing}{\f21\fs18  (\ldblquote virsing\rdblquote )\par 
3.  (15 points) In many individuals this smaller duct of the ventral pancreas also empties into the duodenum, although in some cases it atrophies away.\par 
\tab Answer: duct of }{\f21\fs18\ul Santorini}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 8.  Sure, most ACF players have memorized which Japanese author wrote which novel, but how much do you know about the novels themselves? Name these novels FTP given a description, or F5P if you need the author.
\par 
1.  (10 points) Sebastian Rodrigues, a Port
uguese seminarian, journeys to Japan to investigate why his former teacher, a missionary to Japan, has chosen apostasy over martyrdom. In the end, Sebastian sees the selfishness of martyrdom, and follows the same path as his teacher.\par 
(5 points) Endo Shusaku\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Silence}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Chimmoku}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2.  (10 points) This novel uses the tea ceremony as a background for the story of Kikuji's relationships with his father's former mistress and her daughter.\par 
(5 points) Kawabata Yasunari\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Thousand Cranes}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sembazuru}{\f21\fs18 )\par 

3.  (10 points) This novel tells of the amateur entomologist Niki Jumpei, who, on a weekend trip from the city, discovers a bizarre village where residents live in deep sand pits. Imprisoned with a widow in one of the pits, Niki must continually shovel the
 sand that threatens to bury the village.\par 
(5 points) Abe Kobo\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Woman in the Dunes}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Suna no onna}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
9.  Name the Nazi FTP each.\par 
1.  This chief architect of public works and later Minister of Armaments was the only Nazi official to admit responsibility\rquote s for the regime\rquote s atrocities at the Nuremberg trials.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Albert }{\f21\fs18\ul Speer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  This deputy of Himmler and superior to Eichmann in the SS was made protector of Bohemia and Moravia in 1941.  He was assassinated by Czech partisans parachuted in from Britain the following year.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Reinhard }{\f21\fs18\ul Heydrich}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  This British traitor with an upper-class drawl broadcast propaganda for the Germans during the war and was executed afterward.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  William }{\f21\fs18\ul Joyce}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Lord Haw Haw}{\f21\fs18    \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
10.  FTSNOP, identify these figures from Greek myth associated with the saga of Uranus's testicles.\par 
1.  (10 points) Our story begins with Uranus's hatred of Briarus, Cottus, and Gyes, three offspring of his and Gaea\rquote 
s, who are collectively known by this name literally meaning "those with a hundred hands".  Name these fifty-headed creatures whom Uranus hid in Gaea's body.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hecatoncheires}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (15 points) After Uranus hid the Hecatoncheires in Gaea's body, Gaea appealed to her other children for vengence. Cronus responded b
y cutting off Uranus's testicles with a sickle. From the blood which fell from the testicles were born the Furies, the Giants, and these ash-tree nymphs.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Meliai}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Melic}{\f21\fs18  nymphs)\par 
3.  (5 points) After producing the Meliai, Uranus's testicles floated on the sea, producing a white foam from which sprang this goddess, whose name appropriately comes from the Greek for "foam".\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Aphrodite}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11.  Identify the following energetic concepts.\par 
1.  (5 points) In a frictionless swinging pendulum, the kinetic energy of the bob is converted into this type of energy.\par 
\tab Answer:  gravitational }{\f21\fs18\ul potential }{\f21\fs18 energy\par 
2.  (15 points) Thermal energy cannot be completely converted into other types; instead, there is a maximum efficiency at which a heat engine can run.  Name the sequence of events an engine would take to achieve this efficiency.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Carnot }{\f21\fs18 cycle\par 
3.  (10 points) The conservation of energy is a consequence of the basic laws of physics being symmetric with respect to translations in what quantity?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul time}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12.  FTPE, name these religious works by Sigmund Freud.\par 
1.  In this 1927 work, Freud expanded upon views expressed in his essay "Obsessional Acts and Religious Practices", explaining his belief that God is a mythic reproduction of the universal state of infantile helplessness.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Future of an Illusion}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18 Die }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Zukunft einer Illusion}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  After discussions with Romain Rolland, Freud modified his religious views in this 1930 work, in which he analyzes fundamental religious experiences, 
holding that their origins can be found in nostalgia for the pre-Oedipal infant's sense of unity with its mother.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Civilization and Its Discontents}{\f21\fs18  (or Das }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Unbehagen in der Kultur}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
3.  Called a "historical novel" by Freud, this 1938 work sought to solve the mystery of Moses's origins by claiming that Moses was originally an aristocratic Egyptian who had chosen the Jewish people to keep alive an earlier monotheistic religion.  Too ste
rn a taskmaster, Moses was slain in a Jewish revolt and replaced by a more pliant leader. Freud claimed that the Moses remembered today is a composite of these two men.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Moses and Monotheism}{\f21\fs18  (or Der }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Mann Moses und die monotheistische Religion}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
13.  FTPE, answer the following concerning the end of  Peloponnesian War.\par 
1.  Lysander was the de facto leader of the Spartan Navy at this Spetember, 405 BCE battle which resulted in the destruction of the Athenian fleet.\par 
\tab Answer: Battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Aegospotami}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  After Aegospotami, Lysander starved Athens into surrender and instituted the establishment of this oligarchy.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Thirty}{\f21\fs18  Tyrants\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  This pupil of Socrates and associate of Alcibiades was one of the Thirty Tyrants and died resisting Thrasybulus in 403.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Critias}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 14.  5-10-15, name these novels by John O'Hara.\par 
1.  (5 points) This novel describes three days in the life of Julian English, an automobile dealer who throws a drink in the face of one of his financial backers in a foolish act of rebellion.  After his life spirals out of control, he commits suicide.
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Appointment in Samarra}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (10 points) Set in uptown New York, this novel tells of Gloria Wandrous, a girl who becomes involved in a descending circle of vice and is finally killed when she falls overboard from a steamer.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Butterfield 8}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (15 points) This ambitious work centers upon Joseph Chapin, a leading citizen of Gibbsville, Pennsylvania, who secretly longs to become President of the United States.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ten North Frederick}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
15.  About 95% of known asteroids in the solar system move in orbits between those of Mars and Jupiter. FTSNOP, name the following.\par 
1.  (5 points) Giuseppe Piazzi discovered the first asteroid in 1801.  Name it.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ceres}{\f21\fs18 \par 

2.  (10 points) Lagrange predicted the existence of two groups of asteroids located near the L4 and L5 points of a three-body system formed by the Sun, Jupiter, and the asteroids. Give the mythological name applied to these asteroids, now used to refer to 
any asteroids found in a three-body system.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Trojan}{\f21\fs18  asteroids\par 
3.  (15 points) Asteroid orbits are not uniformly distributed, but rather exhibit "gaps" in the distribution of their semimajor axes.  Name these gaps, caused by resonances with Jupiter's orbital period.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kirkwood}{\f21\fs18  gaps\par 
\par 
16.  Identify these Asian rivers FTPE.\par 
1.  Formed by the confluence of the Mali and the Nmai Hka, this 1,350 mile long river serves as the principal waterway of Myanmar, flowing past Mandalay and emptying into the Andaman Sea.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Irrawaddy}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Ayeyarwady}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2.  Known in ancient times as the Jaxartes, it is formed by the confluence of the Naryn and Karadarya rivers, and flows for 1680 miles before emptying into the northern Aral Sea.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Syrdarya\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  Rising in the western Himalayas, this river flows past Delhi and the Taj Mahal before joining the Ganges at Allahabad.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Yamuna}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Jumna}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17.  The legal definition of obscenity and pornography has changed over the years. FTP, name the following laws and legal decisions which have tried to define these terms.\par 
1.  One of the earliest definitions of obscenity is found in this 1873 law, which broadened the 1865 Mail Act by providing fine and imprisonment for any person mailing or receiving "obscene", "lewd", or "lascivious" publications.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Comstock}{\f21\fs18  Act or Law\par 
2.  In this 1957 case, the US Supreme Court tendered a redefinition, holding that a work was obscene if "to the average person, applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interest."
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Roth}{\f21\fs18  v. US\par 
3.  In 1966, the Supreme Court declared a work pornographic only if it was "utterly without redeeming social value" in a ruling on this book by John Cleland.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 Memoirs of }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Fanny Hill}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 18.  FTSNOP, name these poems by Vachel Lindsey.\par 
1.  (5 points) This poem, meant to be sung to the tune of "The Blood of the Lamb", describes a celestial reunion of the Salvation Army and the arrival of their leader.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul General William Booth Enters Into Heaven}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 
2.  (10 points) This poem is divided into sections entitled "Their basic savagery", "Their Irrepressible High Spirits", and "The Hope of their Religion". Proported to be "a study in the Negro Race", it is really nothing more than a collection of racial ste
reotypes.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Congo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3. (15 points) This poem, which holds that "Man is a torch, then ashes," tells of the exotic reveries engaged in by the poet's laundryman, Chang.  The refrain of the poem, "Spring came on forever," is sung by the title animal.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Chinese Nightingale}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
19.  Show that you know about steroids other than androstenedione by answering the following, FTSNOP.\par 
1.  (10 points)  The nucleus of all steroids is a structure with four linked carbon rings.  Give either the name of this structure or the number of carbon atoms it contains.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul gonane }{\f21\fs18 (don\rquote t accept steroid nucleus) or }{\f21\fs18\ul 17}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  (5 points) This hormone and steroid is produced by the ovaries, placenta, and adrenal glands.  It regulates the inner lining of the uterus.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul progesterone}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (15 points) Secreted by the adrenal glands with aldosterone, a lack of this hormone causes Addison\rquote s disease.  It is a potent anti-inflammatory whose secretion is regulated by ACTH.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cortisol}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul hydrocortisone}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
20.  30-20-10, Name this philosopher.\par 
1.  This philosopher published only articles, including the autobiographical "Waiting for God" and 1951's "Intimations of Christianity Among the Ancient Greeks."  These and other collected works center upon the eventual contradictory
 nature of rational thought, and the resulting need for the way of mysticism, in which the self becomes annihilated through unification with divine love.\par 

2.  In "The Need for Roots" she documented the time she spent working in a factory to learn the psychological effects of heavy industrial labor.  Soon after joining an anarchist unit in the Spanish Civil War she had the first of several mystical experience
s, which would influence her belief in what she called "ersatz divinity".\par 
3.  This French social philosopher wrote "The Iliad; or the Poem of Force" and "Gravity and Grace".  She lived a life of dedicated deprivation, and eventually starved herself to death as a kind of symbolic participation in\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 Jewish suffering during World War II.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Simone }{\f21\fs18\ul Weil}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
Those poor Hartford Wits! Convinced that the newly independent United States must show its greatness through epic poetry, they set out to make this a reality. Unfortunately, they lacked the talent to complete the task. FTSNOP, answer the following concerni
ng their doggerel verse.\par 
1.  (10 points) This mock epic, a collective effort of the Wits subtitled "A Poem on the Restoration of Chaos and Substantial Night", ridiculed states slow to ratify the Constitution.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Anarchiad}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2.  (15 points) Timothy Dwight penned this 10,000 line epic, a biblical allegory of the taking of Connecticut from the British. Some critics regard it as the first American epic, but all are agreed that it is unreadable.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Conquest of Canaan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 3.  (5 points) This poet did his best to match Dwight's "The Conquest of Canaan" with his own doggerel epic "The Columbiad". However, he could occasionally turn out good verse, as in "The Hasty Pudding".\par 
\tab Answer: Joel }{\f21\fs18\ul Barlow}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
 FTSNOP, identify the following from chemistry.\par 
1.  (5 points) Name the class of unsaturated hydrocarbons characterized by the inclusion of at least one carbon double-bond.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul olefins}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul alkenes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (5 points) The simplest alkene has the formula C2H4.  Name it.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ethylene}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul ethene}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (10 points) The fast polymerization of ethylene was found to occur rapidly in the presence of a mixture of organometallic compounds and compounds of certain heavy metals.  Name the German chemist who made this discovery.\par 
\tab Answer:  Karl }{\f21\fs18\ul Ziegler}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  (10 points) Ziegler\rquote s work was extended to other olefins by this Italian chemist who lends his name with Ziegler to a class of catalysts.\par 
\tab Answer:  Giulio }{\f21\fs18\ul Natta}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Given a mixture of chemical sludge, how would you go about telling what it was?  Answer the following questions about methods of chemical separation FTPE.\par 
1. (10 points) Used to separate DNA fragments, it relies on the movement of charged particles in a fluid under the influence of an electric field.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul electrophoresis}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul cataphoresis}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2. (10 points) This method is centuries old and is based on the differences in boiling points between substances.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul distillation}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) Particles in a tube are subjected to an upward fluid flow.  Varying the fluid speed allows the particles to be separated by size and density.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul elutriation}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}