{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}{\s2 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title ACF questions}{\author Richard Grimes}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd 
\sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Marquette (Nathan Freeburg and Ryan Thom) and Wichita State University (John Roushkolb, Vic D\rquote Amico)}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

1.  Rome fought a series of four wars with them, suffering disastrous defeats at their hands at the Caudine Forks and Lautulae, before winning decisive victory at Sentinum through the heroic self-sacrifice of Publius Decius Mus.  FTP, name this people of t
he Appenine foothills who spoke an Oscan dialect related to Latin and whose resistance was the last real obstacle to the Roman mastery of mainland Italy.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Samnite}{\f21\fs18 s \par 
\par 
2.  It is said that it was so inspiring that Eugene Delacroix repainted his }{\i\f21\fs18 Massacre of Chios}{\f21\fs18 
 upon seeing it.  This painting was first exhibited at London's Royal Academy in 1820, and at the Paris Salon of 1824 it was awarded a gold medal and caused great excitement among French painters. In it, two dogs watch as two men try to coax a team of thre
e red-yoked horses to pull an unladen wagon through a ford in a river.  For 10 points, what is this painting, which had such an influence on Barbizon School painters, by John Constable?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Haywain}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  Fleeing the city of Rouen, she i
s ostracized by her traveling companions, who include a merchant family, a writer, a politician, an industrialist, and an aristocratic couple.  Their attitude towards her changes, however, when it is learned that only she can earn them safe passage.  But w
hen she does so, at the price of sleeping with the German general, she is ostracized even worse than before.  For 10 points identify this prostitute whose nickname literally means "ball of fat," the title character of a Guy de Maupassant short story.
\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Boule de Suif}{\f21\fs18  (accept Elizabeth }{\f21\fs18\ul Rousset}{\f21\fs18 ; accept "Ball of Fat" on an early buzz)\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 

4.  These compounds derive from members of the form-class Deuteromycotina.  Like the cephalosporins, they have a beta-lactam ring which interferes with the final step in the assembly of bacterial cell walls by inhibiting the enzyme transpeptidase.  For ten
 points, name these mold-derived compounds whose antibiotic properties were discovered in 1928 by Alexander Fleming.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul penicillin}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
5.  Under the provisions of the \ldblquote Cat and Mouse Act,\rdblquote 
 she was imprisoned twelve times for a total of thirty days in 1913.  Every time her condition deteriorated from the effects of her self-induced starvation, she was released, and then when her health improved somewhat she was promptly r
e-incarcerated.  That year, her movement had turned more militant, even bombing Lloyd George\rquote 
s home in a wave of violence said to have been organized by her daughter Christabel.  Her other daughter, Sylvia, was also active in the suffragist movement.  FTP name this woman who died in 1928, shortly before all adult British women gained the vote.
\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul E}{\f21\fs18 mmeline }{\f21\fs18\ul Pankhurst}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\par 
6.  Early in his career he was known as the "poet prince of Montreal."  Now retired in a Buddhist monastery, this Jewish poet-troubadour published his first book of poetry, }{\i\f21\fs18 Let Us Compare Mythologies}{\f21\fs18 
, which was followed by the controversial }{\i\f21\fs18 Flowers for Hitler}{\f21\fs18 .  He has a namesake festival in Krakow and wrote the novel }{\i\f21\fs18 Beautiful Losers}{\f21\fs18  which prompted the }{\i\f21\fs18 Boston Globe}{\f21\fs18 
 to compare him to Jame
s Joyce.  The band, Sisters of Mercy, took their name from one of his works, and he has been covered by Billy Joel, Sting, Tori Amos, Elton John, Willy Nelson and Concrete Blond.  Name this writer-musician who penned and performed such songs as "If It Be Y
our Will", "Bird on a Wire", "Closing Time" and "Suzanne."\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Leonard }{\f21\fs18\ul Cohen}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
7.  For the quantum-mechanical version, energy eigenfunctions are proportional to Hermite polynomials and the ground state energy is one-half h-bar times the angular frequ
ency.  The classical version is simply a system with a restoring force obeying Hooke's law.  Examples of what object, for ten points, include a mass on a spring and a small-amplitude pendulum. \par 
\tab Answer: simple }{\f21\fs18\ul harmonic oscillator\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
8.  This author's innovative writing style was important in the development of poetry in both Spain and Latin America.  Born in 1867, he began traveling the world, and while in Buenos Aires organized a group of followers who established the Spanish-America
n modernist movement, a synthesis of romanticism, Parnassianism, and the symbolist movement.  His first collection of poetry, }{\i\f21\fs18 Azul}{\f21\fs18 
, was published in 1888, and his best piece would come 22 years after that.  FTP, name this poet, whose best work was }{\i\f21\fs18 Poem of Autumn}{\f21\fs18 , born Felix Ruben Garcia-Sarmiento.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Ruben }{\f21\fs18\ul Dario}{\f21\fs18  (Accept Felix Ruben }{\f21\fs18\ul Garcia-Sarmiento}{\f21\fs18  early)\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 9.  In Louisiana, he introduced steam power into sugar production, but supposedly killed a man in a duel, perhaps with an \ldblquote Arkansas toothpick.\rdblquote   Fleeing the U.S., he assume
d Mexican citizenship and married the daughter of the Mexican vice-governor of Texas.  Still, this did not prevent him from becoming a colonel in the Texas Army and lying sick in a cot during the siege of the Alamo.  FTP, name this man who still has a knif
e named after him.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:\tab Jim }{\f21\fs18\ul Bowie}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10.  Different legends place her variously as the daughter of Chrysaor and Callirrhoe, Gaia and Tartarus, or Phorcys and Ceto.  Whatever her own lineage, she certainly got around.  According to one story, she even got
 lucky with Heracles, giving birth to three of his children:  Agathyrsus, Gelonus, and Scytha.  By her own son Orthus she gave birth to the Sphinx and the Nemean Lion, and by Orthus' father, Typhon, the Chimaera, the Hydra, and Cerberus. For 10 points, who
 was this monstrous mother of Greek myth--half-woman and half-serpent--who shares her name with a modern monotreme?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Echidna}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11. The inversion of this curve with respect to its focus is a cardioid, and with respect to its vertex the cissoid of Dio
cles.  More familiarly, it's those points where the distances between a line and a point not on the line are equal.  Rays parallel to the axis reflect from this curve to meet at the focus, a feature used in satellite dishes. For ten points, an example of w
hat conic section is the curve y equals x squared.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul parabola}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12.  This 1916 work is a superstitious masterpiece concerned with the universal manifestation of psychic activity underneath the conscious world.  Primarily concerned with the element o
f wish fulfillment in dreams, it also contained the evolving theory of the libido and the unconscious.  For 10 points, what was this Sigmund Freud work in which he laid the theoretical groundwork for his treatment methodology?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul General Introduction to Psychoanalysis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
13.  It originated as a 1947 short story entitled "Battle Royal," which was later used as the first chapter of the expanded novel.  In it, the nameless title character flees the South for New York City and joins a radical revolutionar
y society known as the Brotherhood, only to discover that the Brotherhood is just as racist as the rest of the world.  In the end, he retreats into a hole in the ground and disappears.  For 10 points name this work by Ralph Ellison.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18     \tab Answer:   }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Invisible Man}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. After receiving a Jesuit education, he served as a cacique in the Tinta region.  At first, he received some support from the criollos, but they soon turned against him when it became clear that his rebellion had turned into a bloody confrontatio
n between Indians and Europeans.  Deriving his name from the last Inca ruler, from whom he was descended, this man controlled much of southern Peru as well as parts of Bolivia and Argentina before he was captured and executed in Cuzco in 1781.  FTP name th
is man, originally Jose Gabriel Condorcanqui, who led the last major Indian revolt in the Spanish Americas.   Oh, and he\rquote s not the rapper.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Tupac Amaru}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15.  Prenylated proteins have side chains of these compounds.  Since beta-carotene is also a m
ember of this class, its presence helps prevent the proteins from triggering cancer.  Found in botanical oils, their structure of branched five-carbon units yields polymers such as gutta-percha and rubber.  For ten points, what compound's basic structural 
unit is C5H8, also known as isoprene.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul terpenes}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul isoprenoids}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 16.  Running in a large arc, this mountain system is broken by numerous passes that have served as invasion routes. It\rquote s sub-ranges include the Little, White, East, High Tatra, and the
 Transylvanian Alps, and the region is rich in precious metal, petroleum products, and salt.  Its highest point is a mere 8,711 ft above sea level, at Gerlachovsky Stit, in Slovakia.  FTP, name this mountain range that is a great semi-circle, with both end
s touching the Danube River, at Bratislava, Slovakia, and the Iron Gate near Orsova, Romania.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Carpathian}{\f21\fs18  Mountains\par 
\par 
17.  This man was such a bad commander that his brother had to assume command from his deathbed to rescue the army from this man\rquote s
 incompetence.  After the death of his brother and father, he became regent to the young Richard II, and retained influence within the court until his death in 1399, despite his unpopularity, and his association with John Wycliffe.  FTP, name this father o
f Henry IV, whose nickname is taken from the Belgian city of his birth.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul John of Gaunt}{\f21\fs18  (Prompt on }{\f21\fs18\ul Duke of Lancaster}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 18.  As summarized by the author, the poem "is essentially about an imaginary character (not the poet, not me) named Henry, a whi
te American in early middle age sometimes in blackface, who has suffered an irreversible loss and talks about himself sometimes in the first person, sometimes in the third, sometimes even in the second; he has a friend, never named, who addresses him as Mr
. Bones and variants thereof."  Written beginning in 1959, the first 77 of them won a 1965 Pulitzer Prize, while a total of 385 were written by the time the poet threw himself off a bridge in 1972.  For 10 points name this series of poems by John Berryman.
\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Dream Songs}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
19.  This book aroused the suspicions of the Church authorities, but its author was no stranger to controversy, having had earlier work condemned in 1121.  This work, however, provided the initial programme for the scholastic method.  It is a compilation o
f contradictory propositions drawn from Scripture and the Church Fathers, without any clear indication of where the truth lay.  For 10 points, what is this Peter Abelard work whose Latin title literally translates as \ldblquote Yes and No\rdblquote ?
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sic et Non}{\f21\fs18  (Accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Yes and No}{\f21\fs18  or equivalents on an early buzz.)\par 
\par 

20. Within a constant it's the Laplacian of the function "one over distance"  and is also the charge density of a point charge.  Actually an operator which projects out a function's value at the origin, it's not really a function at all.  For ten points, n
ame this mathematical entity, which is zero everywhere except the origin and is designated by a Greek letter. \par 
\tab Answer: Dirac }{\f21\fs18\ul delta}{\f21\fs18  function\par 
\par 
T1.  At her birth, the prophesy was gi
ven that she would become the most beautiful woman in all of Ireland, and that she would be a harbinger of bloodshed and death.  Conchobar, king of Ulster, vows to marry her as soon as she is of age in an effort to avoid the bloodshed and death prophesied,
 but her nurse\rquote s stories about Conchobar\rquote s nephew Noisi cause her to fall in love him.  They marry, and run off to Scotland.  FTP, name this Irish literary fixture whose return to Ireland causes the death of Noisi, and her own suicide.\tab 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Deirdre}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
T
2.  Implicitly required by universal homogeneity and isotropy, its reciprocal is proportional to time since the Big Bang.  Usually given in units of kilometers per second per Megaparsec, constraints on its value come from observing distant Cepheid variable
s.  For ten points, the distance and recession velocity of cosmological objects are related by what constant named for a famous astronomer.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hubble}{\f21\fs18  constant \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 T3.  Originally an atheist, he converted to Christianity under the influence of a fellow member of the Inklings.  A noted authority on British courtly literature and a critically acclaimed novelist with books like }
{\i\f21\fs18 Til We Have Faces}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Perelandra}{\f21\fs18 , he became a cultural critic and religious proselytizer with such works as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Abolition of Man}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Pilgrim's Regress}{\f21\fs18 
, and, after the death of his wife, }{\i\f21\fs18 A Grief Observed}{\f21\fs18 .  FTP, name this author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Out of the Silent Planet}{\f21\fs18  and children's literature like }{\i\f21\fs18 The Voyage of the Dawn Treader}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18      Answer:   C(live) S(taples) }{\f21\fs18\ul Lewis}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Marquette and Wichita State}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  Identify the composer from works, 30-20-10-5.\par 
1.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Vitebsk}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Dance Panels}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Symphony for Organ and Orchestra}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Two operas: }{\i\f21\fs18 The Second Hurricane}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Tender Land}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Scores for films: }{\i\f21\fs18 Of Mice and Men}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Red Pony}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Something Wild}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  Ballets: }{\i\f21\fs18 Billy the Kid}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Appalachian Spring}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Rodeo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Aaron }{\f21\fs18\ul Copland}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
2.  Answer these questions about explorers FTP each.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1.  He discovered Brazil for Portugal in 1500.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Pedro }{\f21\fs18\ul Cabral}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  In 1536, this survivor of the Narvaez expedition reached Sonora, Mexico after wandering across the southwest for eight years.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Alvar Nunez Cabeza de }{\f21\fs18\ul Vaca\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  Jean Ribault established this colony for French Protestants in South Carolina in 1562.  Lacking supplies, it disbanded in 1564.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Port Royal\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  For ten points each, identify these famous prophets or seers of classical mythology.\par 
1.  The chief Greek prophet at Troy, he insisted that Agamemnon must relinquish his concubine to spare his army from the plague.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Calchas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  His ability to understand the speech of animals saved his own life, and won a bride for his brother Bias; his name in Greek means \ldblquote black foot".\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Melampus}{\f21\fs18            \par 
3.  A descendant of Melampus, he foresaw disaster for the expedition of the Seven against Thebes, but his bribed wife carried the day; his sons would avenge him on her.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Amphiaraus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 4.  Answer the following questions about literary bridges, FTP each.\par 
1.  This 1927 Thornton Wilder work saw Brother Juniper investigate the seemingly random collapse of a Peruvian bridge.\par 
     Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bridge of San Luis Rey}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Who is the author of the 1930 epic poem, "The Bridge"?\par 
     Answer:  Hart }{\f21\fs18\ul Crane}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  What large architectural structure serves as the focal point of Hart Crane's "The Bridge"?\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Brooklyn}{\f21\fs18  Bridge \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  For ten points each, identify the following terms from linear algebra.  \par 
1.  For a given square matrix, it is a vector whose product with the matrix is the original vector multiplied by a scalar.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul eigenvector\par 
}{\f21\fs18 2.  It is a set of linearly independent generators of a vector space. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul basis\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  It is the number of nonzero rows in the reduced row echelon form of a matrix; or, equivalently, the dimension of the row space of the matrix. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul rank  }{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6.  Name this social scientist, 30-20-10.\par 
1.  Margaret Mead was the literary executor of this fellow anthropologist who was once her teacher.  Mead took advantage of her access to these papers and letters to both publish a compilation of them and write a biography, which she subtitled \ldblquote 
A Humanist in Anthropology.\rdblquote \par 
2.  This anthropologist developed the concept of synergy, was an early advocate of cultural relativism, and was editor of The Journal of American Folklore from 1925-1939, from which came the monograph }{\i\f21\fs18 Zuni Mythology}{\f21\fs18 
, published in two volumes in 1935.\par 
3.  A student of Franz Boaz, her first publication was }{\i\f21\fs18 Patterns of Culture}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Ruth }{\f21\fs18\ul Benedict}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7.  Answer these questions about the Tennessee Valley Authority FTP apiece.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1.  The genesis of TVA was the construction of a federal dam and nitrate plant in 1917 at this place in Alabama on the Tennessee River.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Muscle Shoals}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
2.  This progressive Nebraska senator tried to develop a mass federal program in the region during both the Coolidge and Harding administrations, but his efforts were defeated; he later introduced the bill that created TVA.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  George }{\f21\fs18\ul Norris}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  The Tennessee Valley Authority was established in this year.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul 1933}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
8.  Say you're being chased by dogs with bees in their mouth and when they bark, they shoot bees at you.  Answer these questions about the projectiles for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  (5 points) Most of the bees will be female and may have developed from unfertilized gametes through this reproductive method. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul parthenogenesis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (10 points) Stopping to ponder the wonders of Duff beer, you are stung.  What egg-laying organ of female bees has been modified for this purpose. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ovipositor}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (10 points) If they're European honey bees, Mr. Burns is lucky to have them.  Wild North American populations have been nearly wiped out by this mite which feeds on bee larvae. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Varroa}{\f21\fs18  jacobsoni mites\par 
4.  (5 points) During the attack, your gyrations imitate a bee dance and send the insects looking for food.  What zoologist won a Nobel Prize for explaining this dance as part of his ethology work.\par 
\tab Answer: Karl von }{\f21\fs18\ul Frisch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
9.  For 10 points apiece-- identify these literary pseudonyms, given their source.\par 
1.  This pseudonym was taken from the name of a character in Ibsen's }{\i\f21\fs18 Rosmersholm}{\f21\fs18  which the writer had portrayed during her days as an actress.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Rebecca West}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2.  This Latin American chose his pseudonym by picking a random name out of the newspaper; it was only later that he discovered that his adopted surname was coincidentally shared by the Czech poet of }{\i\f21\fs18 Friday Songs}{
\f21\fs18 .  \par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Pablo Neruda}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 3.  This writer adopted as his pseudonym the name of a small German town, the birthplace of archaeologist Johann Joachim Winckelmann.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Stendhal}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. Identify the philosopher who wrote each of the following works for 5 points apiece.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Phenomenon of Man}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Pierre }{\f21\fs18\ul Teilhard de Chardin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Time and Free Will}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer: Henri }{\f21\fs18\ul Bergson}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Testability and Meaning}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer: Rudolf }{\f21\fs18\ul Carnap}{\f21\fs18  \par 
4. }{\i\f21\fs18 Experience and Nature}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Dewey}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5. }{\i\f21\fs18 Principia Ethica}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Moore}{\f21\fs18 \par 
6. }{\i\f21\fs18 On the Most Ancient Wisdom of the Italians}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Giambattista }{\f21\fs18\ul Vico}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 11.  Identify these \lquote C\rquote  roman statesmen FTP each.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 1.  He studied law, oratory, philosophy, and embarked upon a political career, gaining the consulship in 63 BC.  He was murdered near Caeita as he tried to escape the troops of Mark Antony.\par 
\tab Answer:  Marcus Tullius }{\f21\fs18\ul Cicero}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This farmer-hero was called from the plow and given absolute power to rescue the armies of the consul Minucius.  After doing so, he returned the power, and returned to his simple life.\par 
\tab Answer:  Lucius Quinctius }{\f21\fs18\ul Cincinattus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This impoverished Roman politician of patrician descent tried to exploit the economic troubles of Rome and Italy to his own end, but his plot was foiled by Cicero in 63 BC and he himself killed in battle at Pistoria.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Catiline}{\f21\fs18  or Lucius Sergius }{\f21\fs18\ul Catalina\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 12. Identify the Russian novels from a pair of characters on a 5-10-15 basis.\par 
1.  Dolly Oblonskaya and Konstantin Levin\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Anna Karenina}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 2.  Sonya Marmeladovna and Porfiry Petrovich\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Crime and Punishment}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\i\f21\fs18 Prestuplenie i nakazanie}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
3.  Agafya Pshenitsyna and Olga Ilinskaya\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Oblomov\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
13.  All music, even jazz, is part of the ACF canon.  Of course some forms are trapped in the science distribution.  Answer the following about the physics of music for ten points each. \par 
1.  All instruments rely on these waves to produce sound.  They are the superposition of two identical waves moving in opposite directions.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul standing}{\f21\fs18  wave\par 
2.  This is a quantitative measure of loudness and is defined as the power per unit area. It is commonly measured in decibels. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul intensity}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Standing waves with frequencies in a ratio of 2 to 1 are an octave apart.  What interval is formed by waves in the next simplest ratio, 3 to 2.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul major fifth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14.  Answer these questions about 1971 FTP each.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1.  Idi Amin overthrew this Ugandan president in January 1971.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Milton }{\f21\fs18\ul Obote}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  The banning of this East Pakistani political party, which had won a majority of seats in the National Assembly, led to the declaration of independence of Bangladesh.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Awami}{\f21\fs18  League}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  Women gained the vote in this European country in 1971.\par 
}\pard\plain \li720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Switzerland}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
15.  Film directors sometimes get a little bit "wild", at least in titling their films.  Following are two groups of three films, one by American directors and one by European directors.  You may attempt to identify the director of each of the films from e
ither }{\b\f21\fs18 one}{\f21\fs18  of the groups for 10 points apiece, or you may attempt to identify all the directors of all of the films for 5 points apiece.  You will also be given the year in which the film was
 first released (and the original title of the foreign films).  If you decide to only attempt one group, you must specify whether you want to hear the American or the European films.  [Moderator: prompt captain for choice after no more than 5 seconds.]
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 I.  }{\b\f21\fs18 American Films}{\f21\fs18 : \par 
a.}{\i\f21\fs18 The Wild Bunch}{\f21\fs18        (1969) \par 
\tab Answer: Sam }{\f21\fs18\ul Peckinpah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
b.}{\i\f21\fs18 Something Wild}{\f21\fs18        (1986) \par 
\tab Answer: Jonathan }{\f21\fs18\ul Demme}{\f21\fs18 \par 
c.}{\i\f21\fs18 Wild at Heart}{\f21\fs18         (1990) \par 
\tab Answer: David }{\f21\fs18\ul Lynch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
II.  }{\b\f21\fs18 European Films}{\f21\fs18 :\par 
a.}{\i\f21\fs18 Wild Strawberries}{\f21\fs18     (Smultronstallet, 1957) \par 
\tab Answer: Ingmar }{\f21\fs18\ul Bergman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
b.}{\i\f21\fs18 The Wild Child}{\f21\fs18        (L'Enfant Sauvage, 1970) \par 
\tab Answer:  Francois }{\f21\fs18\ul Truffaut}{\f21\fs18 \par 
c.}{\i\f21\fs18 Wild Reeds}{\f21\fs18            (Les Roseaux Sauvage, 1994) \par 
\tab Answer: Andre }{\f21\fs18\ul Techine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16.  For ten points each, identify these methods for determining the hardness of a substance.\par 
1.  A square-based diamond pyramid bit is pressed into a material and the indentation's size is measured.  Unlike the Knoop test, it's used primarily on metals.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Vickers}{\f21\fs18  hardness test\par 
2.  Instead of a diamond bit, this test uses a spherical steel ball. The key parameters are the load and the surface area of the indentation, in contrast to the Rockwell test.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Brinell}{\f21\fs18  hardness test\par 
3.  This test is based on whether surfaces are scratched by susbstances of known hardness. It features a non-linear scale and less precision than other tests.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Mohs}{\f21\fs18  hardness test \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 17.  Identify the Italian authors from clues, FTP each.\par 
1.  A major author of the Risorgimento, he wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 The Story of Carmagnola}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Adelchi}{\f21\fs18 , and the popular }{\i\f21\fs18 I Promessi Spossi}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 The Betrothed}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Alessandro Francesco Tommaso Antonio }{\f21\fs18\ul Manzoni}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  In 1950, he committed suicide, like his mutual admirer Hemingway, having penned such works as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Moon and the Bonfires}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Death Will Stare At Me Out Of Your Eyes}{\f21\fs18 
, a verse collection.  He also translated many modern American authors into Italian.\par 
\tab Answer:  Cesare }{\f21\fs18\ul Pavese}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Abandoning his early romantic style, his later works focused on the common life in his native Sicily.  His works include }{\i\f21\fs18 The House by the Medlar Tree}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Mastro-don Gesualdo}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 
Cavalleria Rusticana}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Giovanni }{\f21\fs18\ul Verga}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18.  Identify these American ships that met with a less-than-lucky end, FTP each.\par 
1.  This intelligence-gathering ship was captured in the Sea of Japan in January, 1968 by the North Koreans.  Its crew was held hostage for eleven months.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Pueblo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This destroyer had the ignominious honor of being the first U.S. ship sunk in World War II, as it was torpedoed by a German U-Boat in October 1941.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Reuben James}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This gunboat had a large American flag painted on its deck, which may have led to its \ldblquote accidental\rdblquote  sinking by Japanese planes while it was sailing the Yangtze River in December 1937.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Panay\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 19.  Identify these satellite missions from a brief description, for ten points each. \par 
1.  In a unique polar orbit, this satellite has studied features of the solar wind and corona at high heliospheric latitudes.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ulysses}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  It came within 600 kilometers of Comet Halley in 1986 and provided the first clear pictures of a cometary nucleus. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Giotto}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  Becasue of a computer malfunction, it didn't reach asteroid 1620 Geographos.  It did systematically map the moon and find evidence of water ice. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Clementine}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\par 
20.  Identify each of the following "Great" lakes for 5 points apiece.\par 
1.  It is the largest lake entirely within Canada.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Great Bear}{\f21\fs18  Lake\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  It is the larger of two lakes traversed and connected by the Suez Canal.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Great Bitter}{\f21\fs18  Lake (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Greater Bitter}{\f21\fs18  Lake)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  Drained by the Ouse River, it is the largest lake in Tasmania and the largest freshwater lake in all of Australia.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Great}{\f21\fs18  Lake\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4.  A river of the same name feeds it from Lake Athabasca; it drains to the Beaufort Sea via the Mackenzie River.  Yellowknife, Northwest Territory was established on its banks.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Great Slave}{\f21\fs18  Lake\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 5.  Formed by the Conklingville Dam that was completed in 1930, it regulates the flow of the upper Hudson River.  What is this lake of eastern New York State that is now a summer resort?\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:}{\f21\fs18\ul  Great Sacandaga}{\f21\fs18  Lake (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Sacandaga Reservoir}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 6.  The first non-native to visit it was fur trader James Bridger in 1824.  It receives both the Bear and Weber Rivers, has no outlet, but several islands, including Antelope Island.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Great Salt}{\f21\fs18  Lake\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
21.  Answer the following questions about the Rosetta Stone for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  (5 points) In what year was the stone found in the western Nile delta region?\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1799}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  (5 points) The stone contains the same passage in two languages, Greek and ancient Egyptian, but in three different scripts--Greek, hieroglyphics, and this, a script form of the latter.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul demotic}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3.  (10 points) The stone contains a decree passed on March 27, 196 B.C.E. by Egyptian priests gathered at Memphis to celebrate the first anniversary of the coronation of which Ptolemaic pharaoh of Egypt?\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ptolemy V}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 4.  (10 points) Jean Francois Champollian, of course, first successfully translated hieroglyphics using the Rosetta Stone.
  He owed his success to the recognition that cartouches, groups of hieroglyphs within ovals, contained the names of pharaohs.  Who was the young English physician, however, who made this vital connection by comparing the names on the Rosetta Stone with th
e cartouche of Cleopatra inscribed on the Bankes' obelisk at Kingston Lacey, Dorset?\par 
\tab Answer: Thomas }{\f21\fs18\ul Young}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
22. Identify each of the following Norse deities from brief descriptions for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  (5 points) This god ruled over all things light and joyous and was beloved by all.  However, upon his untimely death, his wife Nanna died of grief, too.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Balder}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  (10 points) This member of the Aesir was the Norse god of war.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tyr\par 
}{\f21\fs18 
3.  (15 points) She wore skis and hunted in the forests of the north, and her marriage to the sea-god Njord was said to have broken down because she could not bear to be away from the mountains, nor he away from the sea.  Who was this mother of the gods Fr
eya and Freyr?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Skadi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 23.  Identify the artist of each of the following paintings for 5 points apiece.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 1. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Bolt}{\f21\fs18  (1778)\par 
\tab Answer: Jean-Honore }{\f21\fs18\ul Fragonard}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Banjo Player}{\f21\fs18  (1893)\par 
\tab Answer: Henry Ossawa }{\f21\fs18\ul Tanner}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Portrait of a Woman Suffering from Obsessive Envy}{\f21\fs18  (1822)\par 
\tab Answer: Theodore }{\f21\fs18\ul Gericault}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. }{\i\f21\fs18 Echo of a Scream}{\f21\fs18  (1937)\par 
\tab Answer: David Alfaro }{\f21\fs18\ul Siqueiros}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5.}{\i\f21\fs18  The Icebergs}{\f21\fs18  (1861)\par 
\tab Answer: Frederic Edwin }{\f21\fs18\ul Church}{\f21\fs18 \par 
6. }{\i\f21\fs18 David With the Head of Goliath }{\f21\fs18 (1606)\par 
\tab Answer: Michelangelo }{\f21\fs18\ul Caravaggio}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 24.  For ten points each, answer the following concerning eukaryotic cells.\par 
1.  Name the colloidal complex of protein, water, and several organic and inorganic substances in which the organelles reside and which fills a cell's interior. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cytoplasm}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul protoplasm}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2.  This part of the cytoskeleton plays a crucial role during mitosis by moving split chromosomes to daughter cells.  Bundles of them form cilia and flagellae.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul microtubules}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Bigger than actin filaments and smaller than microtubules, these objects form a cell's true structure.  They anchor the nucleus and give a cell the ability to withstand tension. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul intermediate filaments}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}}