{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\fs20 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 1-1 lit}{\author David Hamilton}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \fs20 {\b\f21\fs18 
1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Maryland A (Zeke Berdichevsky, Dave Hamilton, Julie Singer, Mike Starsinic)\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 1.  In the background at the right a ba
rge is sailing on the river, and the towers of Notre Dame are visible. The rest of the cityscape is obscured by a thick mist, while the foreground is comprised of a heap of dead bodies over which the main figures march.  At the left stand a black man wield
ing a saber and a man in a top hat; at the right is a small boy brandishing a gun in each hand; and at the middle the bare-breasted titular figure carries a tricolor flag.  FTP name this 1830 canvas by Eugene Delacroix.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Liberty Leading the People}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  Taking exception to an assertion in the pages of the June 3, 1925 issue of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Nation}{\f21\fs18 
 that he had been detained in a country club-type prison, he wrote in a Letter to the Editor, "I was in prison at Sandberg thirteen months in all.  A special decree on April 1, 1924, deprived me of all previous privileges.  All privileges theretofore grant
ed the prisoner wereeither abridged or wiped out.  Count Arco was still benefited by these alleviations."  During that time, though, he did have a chance to write his 
autobiography and political testament.  For 10 points, who was this man who ironically wrote in that work, "The broad mass of a nation will more easily fall victim to a big lie than to a small one"?\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720 \fs20 {\f21\fs18  Answer:  Adolf }{\f21\fs18\ul Hitler}{\f21\fs18  (accept Adolf }{\f21\fs18\ul Schicklgruber}{\f21\fs18 ) }{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  His cult began at Thinis and Lycopolis, and he was also worshipped as Upuaut, the rabbit-headed \ldblquote Opener of the Ways.\rdblquote   His more common name comes from the words for \ldblquote golden dawn\rdblquote 
, and it was he who protected people against Ammut, the \ldblquote devourer.\rdblquote   The keeper of poisons and medicines, this son of Nephthys performs the \ldblquote Opening of the Mouth\rdblquote 
 ceremony and weighs the feather of Maat against a human heart. FTP name this patron of embalming, the jackal-headed god who performs the funeral of Osiris.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Anubis}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  The innkeeper and the thief Gibbet become convinced that the title characters are highwaymen, while Mrs. Sullen is certain that they are not who they pretend to be.  They are two younger sons who had traveled to Lichfield, hoping that one of them wou
ld wed an heiress.  Archer courts the innkeeper\rquote s daughter Cherry, while his friend seeks the hand of Mrs. Sullen\rquote s sister-in-law, the local squire\rquote 
s daughter Dorinda, whom he marries when his brother dies and he becomes Lord Aimwell.  FTP these are the events of what 1707 play by George Farquhar?\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Beaux' Stratagem}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  The polynomial "x cubed minus 2" is irreducible over the rational numbers and so its roots have degree three, as does a simple extension over the rationals by the real roots.  How
ever, any simple extension by a constructible point over the rationals must be a power of two, thus, for ten points, proving the impossibility of what straightedge-and-compass construction which baffled the ancient Greeks along with angle trisection and qu
adrature of the circle?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul duplication}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul doubling}{\f21\fs18 ) of the }{\f21\fs18\ul cube}{\f21\fs18  or equivalents\par 
\par 
6.  Adolf Meyer developed the first edition in 1952 from the International Classification of Diseases. The term "reaction", a reflection of the time's psychobiological 
views, was removed from the second, as was homosexuality.  The third edition added a multi-axial approach to diagnosing mental disorders. For ten points, the fourth edition of what working guide of practicing psychologists was published in 1994.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul DSM}{\i\f21\fs18 -IV}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Diagnostic and Statistical Manual}{\i\f21\fs18  of Mental Disorders}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
7.  Despite the dissolution of the USSR, it is still alive, and its member countries were considering condemning the US for the missile attacks on Sudan in August.  Primarily consisting of Asia
n and African countries, its leaders included Tito, Jawaharlal Nehru and Gamel Abdel Nasser.  It was formally organized at a 1961 conference in Belgrade, but its origins can be traced to the Bandung Conference of 1955.  FTP, name this loose grouping of cou
ntries that resisted joining either the Western or Soviet blocs.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Non-Aligned}{\f21\fs18  Movement\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
8.  The proximal end is rounded for articulation with the acetabulum;  distally, it expands into two condyles, below which lie the medial and lateral menisci.  N
ear the proximal end are trochanters for muscle attachments, including the gluteus medius and minimus.  For ten points, what legbone forms a ball-and-socket joint with the hip.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul femur}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul thighbone}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\par 
9.  The subject of Goethe\rquote s drama }{\i\f21\fs18 Clavigo}{\f21\fs18 
, at the age of twenty-one this man invented a new type of escapement, enabling him to make a watch which could fit inside a ring, which he presented to Madame de Pompadour.  After marrying a penniless widow, he took the title of her country estate and ado
pted the motto \ldblquote Ma Vie est un Combat.\rdblquote 
  After a dispute with the Marquis de Chaulnes left him penniless, he became a gunrunner for George Washington.  FTP, who is this man, better known for writing the plays upon which Mozart and Rossini based operas, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Marriage of Figaro }{
\f21\fs18 and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Barber of Seville}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: Pierre Augustin Caron de }{\f21\fs18\ul Beaumarchais}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10.  There are two mythological ladies with this name. One cut off a golden hair from her father\rquote s head, and as punishment was changed into a lark.  The second transfor
mation was much more gruesome:  she was a nymph who fell in love with Glaucus. This angered Circe, who changed her into a monster with twelve feet, and six heads that barked like a dog. FTP identify this name and you will have identified one of the guardia
ns of the Straits of Messina.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Scylla}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
11.  Nicknamed "Little Napoleon" at West Point, he was wounded at Chapultepec in the Mexican War, and served as West Point's superintendent for six days in early 1861 before he resigned to join the Confederate 
Army.  After taking an unexcused sick leave in 1862, he later defended Charleston against Union naval and ground forces, and defeated Benjamin Butler at Drewry's Bluff south of Richmond.  At Shiloh, he assumed command after Albert Sidney Johnston was kille
d.  FTP, name this Confederate general who also commanded the Rebels at the first battle of Manassas and the bombardment of Ft. Sumter.\par 
\tab Answer: Pierre Gustave Toutant }{\f21\fs18\ul Beauregard\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
12.  Lesser known works include a television adaptation of John Cheever\rquote s story }{\i\f21\fs18 The Sorrows of Gin}{\f21\fs18 , the play }{\i\f21\fs18 When Dinah Shore Ruled the Earth}{\f21\fs18 , and the musical }{\i\f21\fs18 Miami}{\f21\fs18 
. In her most successful drama, the protagonist is an art historian who discovers that her independence has alienated her from men and from women; this theme is continued in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Sisters Rosenweig}{\f21\fs18 . FTP name this author of }{
\i\f21\fs18 Any Woman Can\rquote t}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Isn\rquote t It Romantic}{\f21\fs18 , and the Pulitzer Prize-winning }{\i\f21\fs18 Heidi Chronicles}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Wendy }{\f21\fs18\ul Wasserstein}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
13.  Better known as a physicist, he proposed the idea of a genetic code and championed the
 importance of nucleotide triplets.  At George Washington University, he and Edward Teller worked on beta decay and the internal structure of red giants. Later, he predicted the microwave signal found by Penzias and Wilson.  For ten points, what Russian-bo
rn American coined the term "big bang" and developed its theory with Ralph Alpher and Hans Bethe. \par 
     Answer:  George }{\f21\fs18\ul Gamow}{\f21\fs18  (GAM-ov)\par 
\par 
14.  An important center of trade and commerce, this was the port from which Jacques Cartier left France in 1608. Eighte
en years later the French constructed a dyke across its harbor in order to prevent English aid from arriving after its citizens rebelled.  One of the }{\i\f21\fs18 places de szretZ}{\f21\fs18 
 established by the Edict of Nantes, Cardinal Richelieu led the siege of this city, which was finally captured by the royalists in 1627.  FTP name this Protestant stronghold in western France.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul La Rochelle}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
15.  When Brahms was asked for his autograph by the daughter of this work\rquote s composer, he wrote out a few bars of it and wrote, \ldblquote Sadly, not by Johannes Brahms.\rdblquote  Written in 1867 in response to a commission by the Vienna Men
\rquote s Chorus Association, it was originally a choral work of four waltz numbers, to which the composer added a piano accompaniment.  A fifth number was later added, words
 were provided by Josef Weyl, and the more familiar orchestral version appeared in the same year.  FTP, name this work featured in }{\i\f21\fs18 2001: A Space Odyssey }{\f21\fs18 
and countless commercials, probably the most famous waltz of Johann Strauss, Jr.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: By the Beautiful }{\f21\fs18\ul Blue Danube}{\f21\fs18  waltz or An der schoenen }{\f21\fs18\ul blauen Donau}{\f21\fs18  or Op. }{\f21\fs18\ul 314}{\b\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18 (prompt on Strauss before \ldblquote its composer
\rdblquote  is read)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 

16.  This type of algorithm is useful when the problem exhibits optimal substructure and when locally optimal choices lead to globally optimal solutions.  Huffman coding, Dijkstra's (Dike-strahs) algorithm, and the fractional knapsack problem use it, altho
ugh dynamic programming is a better solution to the "zero-one" knapsack problem.  For ten points, what algorithm always makes the choice that looks best at the moment. \par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul greedy}{\f21\fs18  algorthm\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 

17.  He builds 5 palaces: one devoted to the enjoyment of each of the senses. His mate Carathis burns live bodies at the altar, and he himself sacrifices fifty children to find out the mystery of the sabers from Giaour.  Eventually he and the woman he corr
upts, Nouronihar, find their way to the hall of Eblis where all their wildest dreams are set to come true, that is, until their evil hearts catch fire.  FTP identify this title character of a 1786 novel by William Beckford.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Vathek}{\i\f21\fs18 , An Arabian Tale}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
18.  John Milton said that she was \ldblquote fit to govern not only Europe, but the world.\rdblquote   Defying convention, she collected paintings of sensuous nudes, called Ebba Sparre her \ldblquote bedfellow,\rdblquote  and liked to dress in men
\rquote s clothing.  Becoming queen at six, she worked to conclude the Thirty Years War, which had claimed the life of her father Gustavus Adolphus.  FTP name this Swedish queen who abdicated in 1654.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Christina}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

19.  One form is the partial derivative of the enthalpy per unit mass with respect to temperature taken at constant pressure.  For monatomic ideal gases, the ratio of those at constant pressure and volume is 5/3.  For water at 15 degrees Celsius, it is def
ined as 1 calorie per gram per degree Celsius.  What quantity, for ten points, is defined as the heat capacity per mass. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul specific heat}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul heat capacity}{\f21\fs18  until "per unit mass")\par 
\par 
20.  Originally a Persian settlement, its name means \ldblquote city of tears.\rdblquote 
  Located on an oasis near the site of the ancient city of Nisa, it is known for its handwoven carpets.  A Russian fortress was built there in 1881 and it grew after becoming a station on the Trans-Caspian railroad.  This city is situated at the edge 
of the Karakum desert, and was nearly destroyed by an earthquake in 1948.  FTP name this capital of Turkmenistan.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashgabat}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashkhabad}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
T1.  This writer\rquote s works include }{\i\f21\fs18 Asmod\'8ee}{\f21\fs18 , a play, }{\i\f21\fs18 Men I Hold Great}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Holy Terror}{\f21\fs18 .  He presented aspects of Jesus as a human sufferer in his }{\i\f21\fs18 
Life of Jesus}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Son of Man}{\f21\fs18 , and described a father and son who find their romantic yearnings lead only to aridity in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Desert of Love}{\f21\fs18 
.  His best known novel, however, concerns a woman who attempts to poison her husband, but is acquitted at her trial through her family\rquote s efforts to avoid scandal.  FTP, who is this Nobel-Prize winning author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Kiss to the Leper}
{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Th\'8er\'8fse Desqueyroux}{\f21\fs18 ? \par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Fran\'8dois }{\f21\fs18\ul Mauriac}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
T2.  After being pursued by the police headed by Inspector Lohmann and the underworld contingent led by the leather coated Schraenker, the main character is put on trial by the latter.  There he defends himself by noting that he can\rquote 
t control the evil inside of him, an evil indicated onscreen by the eerie whistling of }{\i\f21\fs18 Peer Gynt}{\f21\fs18 
 when he is about to commit murder.  FTP identify this film about child killer Hans Beckert, which stars Peter Lorre and was directed by Fritz Lang.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul M}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
T3.  In herbaceous dicots like alfalfa the outer side of the cambium produce
s the secondary form of this tissue. Its main constituents include sieve elements, which are often associated with parenchymatous ("Pair-en-ky-mat-us") "companion cells", and transfer cells which are often found in leaves and other green areas.  For ten po
ints, what vascular tissue transports photosynthetic nutrients in plants.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul phloem}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul bast}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
The Bronze Age civilization here is called talayotic, named for a prevalent type of megalithic tower. Grapes, olives and citrus fruits are grown, but touris
m dominates the economy.  Successively controlled by Carthaginians, Romans, Vandals, Moors and Spaniards, they were briefly independent until 1345 when they were reabsorbed into the kingdom of Aragon.  The Treaty of Utrecht transferred part to Great Britai
n, which held it until 1802.  FTP, name this island chain which includes Formentera, Ibiza, Minorca and Majorca.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Balearic}{\f21\fs18  Islands\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\b\f21\fs18 \page 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Bonuses by Maryland A (Zeke Berdichevsky, Dave Hamilton, Julie Singer, Mike Starsinic)}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1.  Given a synopsis of a Willa Cather work identify it FTP each.\par 
1.  In this story, Euclide Auclair is a widowed apothecary living in Quebec who wants to return to France. Much of the story is presented from the perspective of the daughter Cecile.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Shadows on the Rock}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  This story of a Nebraska farm boy who goes to war in Europe was based on a cousin\rquote s letter and won the Pulitzer Prize in 1923.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul One of Ours}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  Godfrey St Peter has completed his work on Spanish explorers and is a crotchety academic who is eventually saved from a gas leak and from emptiness by Augusta, an old sewing woman who shares his garret.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Professor\rquote s House}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Answer the following random questions about lipids for ten points each.\par 
1.  This type of simple lipid is the ester of a glycerol that contains three fatty acid molecules.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul triglyceride}{\f21\fs18 s \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  These are esters of fatty acids and long-chain alcohols, both of which contain an even number of carbon atoms.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul wax}{\f21\fs18 es \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  This group of cyclic, unsaturated fatty acids are derived primarily from arachidonic acid. They act like hormones and effects include regulation of menstruation, control of blood pressure and prevention of blood clotting. \par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul prostaglandin}{\f21\fs18 s (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul leukotriene}{\f21\fs18 s)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  FTP each name these heretical movements of the Middle Ages.\par 
1.  Sometimes called Albigensians because their Manichaeist cult was centered in Albi, they were vegans led by \ldblquote Perfects\rdblquote  who believed in reincarnation.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cathar}{\f21\fs18 s or }{\f21\fs18\ul Cathar}{\f21\fs18 i\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  Members of this all-female movement, whose male counterparts were the Beguards, lived in the community instead of being cloistered, and often staffed hospitals. It was prevalent in Flanders and the Low Countries.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Beguine}{\f21\fs18  movement\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  Members of this movement were followers of a Lyonnais usurer who translated the Bible into the vernacular and recognized only 3 sacraments. They were condemned in 1184.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Waldensian}{\f21\fs18  movement\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  Identify the unsuccessful vice-presidential candidates from their party & the year for 10, or from a further clue for 5.\par 
1. (10 points) Free-Soil Party, 1848\par 
(5 points) This son of a president was ambassador to Great Britain during the Civil War and helped settle the }{\i\f21\fs18 Alabama}{\f21\fs18  Claims.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul C}{\f21\fs18 harles Francis }{\f21\fs18\ul Adams}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) Equal Rights Party, 1872\par 
(5 points) Minister to Haiti from 1889 to 1891 and founder of }{\i\f21\fs18 The North Star.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Frederick }{\f21\fs18\ul Douglass}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) Constitutional Union Party, 1860\par 
(5 points)  The keynote speaker at Gettysburg, PA, on November 19, 1863, and uncle of the author of "The Man Without a Country"\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Edward }{\f21\fs18\ul Everett}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  Identify the following terms from astronomical spectroscopy for ten points each.\par 
1.  Name the law relating the wavelength of a blackbody's maximum emission and its temperature.  The higher the temperature, the shorter the peak wavelength. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Wien}{\f21\fs18 's law \par 
2.  These are emission lines from atoms produced by transitions with a low probability of occurrence, such as from metastable states.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul forbidden}{\f21\fs18  lines (or }{\f21\fs18\ul semi-forbidden}{\f21\fs18  lines)\par 
3. One of the most important forbidden lines is the spin-flip transition of hydrogen. To the nearest integer and in centimeters, at what wavelength does this occur?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 21}{\f21\fs18  cm\par 
\par 
6.  Identify these 20th century Latin American works from description FTP each or from author for 5.\par 
1. (10 points) In this novel Eugenio Castillo tells the story of his father and uncle, singers who are named Cesar and Nestor and who at the height of their fame appeared on }{\i\f21\fs18 I Love Lucy}{\f21\fs18 . But when one dies in 
a car accident the other falls into alcoholism.\par 
(5 points) Oscar Hijuelos\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) In this work the title character associates himself with General Obregon, betrays Gonzalo Bernal, and marries his sister Catalina.\par 
(5 points) Carlos Fuentes\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Death of Artemio Cruz}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) In this work, Don Anselmo builds a brothel of great renown which burns down. Years later he finds himself in a leper colony with Bonifacia. Meanwhile Fushia and Aquilino race up and down the eastern rivers of Peru.\par 
(5 points) Mario Vargas Llosa\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Green House}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7.  Chaikovskii wrote a lot of stuff that isn\rquote t the }{\i\f21\fs18 1812 Overture}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 Swan Lake}{\f21\fs18 . Identify these compositions FTP each.\par 
1.  Infinitely cooler than the }{\i\f21\fs18 1812 Overture}{\f21\fs18 , this 1876 march was commissioned for a benefit concert for soldiers who had been wounded in the war between Serbia and Turkey.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Marche Slave}{\f21\fs18  (\ldblquote Slahv\rdblquote ) or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Slavonic March}{\b\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18 or Op. }{\f21\fs18\ul 31}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This work was dedicated to Nicholas Rubinstein, who called it \ldblquote 
worthless and unplayable . . . bad, trivial, vulgar . . . Only one or two pages have any value!"  Annoyed, Tchaikovsky crossed his name off and rededicated this concerto to Hans von B\'d9low, although he later made some minor changes to it.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Piano}{\i\f21\fs18  Concerto No. }{\i\f21\fs18\ul 1}{\b\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18 or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul First Piano}{\i\f21\fs18  Concerto}{\f21\fs18  (or equivalents) or Op. }{\f21\fs18\ul 23}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  Described as a \ldblquote fantasy overture,\rdblquote  it was begun at the instigation of Balakirev.  It took Chaikovskii years to finish this programmatic work based on a famous drama.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Romeo and Juliet}{\b\i\f21\fs18  }{\i\f21\fs18 Fantasy Overture}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
8.  Yo! Identify these "C" terms from biology FTP each.  \par 
1.  This yellowish structure in the ovary secretes progesterone after an egg is released.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul corpus luteum}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  The cells of this plant supportive tissue usually have thickenings at wall angles.  It's closely related to parenchyma. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul collenchyma}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Often seen on roots, this strip is a waterproof thickening in the radial and end walls of endodermal cells of plants.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Casparian}{\f21\fs18  strip\par 
\par 
9.  FTP each answer these questions about Catherine the Great.\par 
1.  Catherine came to the throne following a coup against this tsar, her husband.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Peter III}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  Russia gained access to the Black Sea in this series of wars, fought from 1767 to 1774 and 1787 to 1792.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Russo-Turkish}{\f21\fs18  Wars\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  This Cossack claimed to be Peter III and led a massive rebellion against Catherine in 1773 and 1774.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Emelyan }{\f21\fs18\ul Pugachev}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 10.  Identify the states where the following National Monuments are located for 5 points each.\par 
1.  Black Canyon of the Gunnison\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Colorado}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Canyon de Chelly\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Arizona}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Craters of the Moon\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Idaho}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  Ocmulgee\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Georgia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  Russell Cave\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Alabama\par 
}{\f21\fs18 6.  Capulin Volcano\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul New Mexico\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
11.  FTP each form these literary conjunctions.  Each answer will be a combination of two literary titles.  For example, if I said someone comes to a costume party dressed as a plague sufferer and kills a Roman Catholic bishop in New Mexico, you\rquote 
d say \ldblquote The Masque of the Red Death Comes for the Archbishop.\rdblquote \par 
1.  Hazel Motes blinds himself when he learns that the Bride has run off with her cousin Leonardo.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wise Blood Wedding}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  A young orphan plays the glad game until her cousin seduces her, she enters a brothel in St Louis, and marries Mat Burke.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul PollyAnna Christie}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  Stoic Norwegian Per Hansa emigrates to North Dakota, where he is seduced\par 
by the bisexual femme fatale Lulu.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Giants in the Earth Spirit}{\b\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
12.  Answer these questions about Ireland FTP each.\par 
1.  This leader of the United Irishmen tried to overthrow British rule with French help in 1798.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  Wolfe }{\f21\fs18\ul Tone}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  The first of these bills designed to give Ireland greater autonomy was defeated in Parliament in 1886.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Home Rule}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  This group, also known as the Irish Republican Brotherhood, attempted poorly-planned uprisings in Ireland and North America in 1867.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Fenians\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 

13.  Born in Martinique in 1925, he was educated in France as a psychiatrist. After taking a psychiatric post in an Algerian hospital in 1953, he joined the liberation movement and became editor of its newspaper.  In 1960 he was appointed ambassador to Gha
na by the rebel Algerian government. \par 
1.  For 10 points identify this man.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Frantz Omar }{\f21\fs18\ul Fanon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 
2.  For another ten points, just before his death of leukemia, Frantz Fanon published what became a classic of modern revolutionary theory in which he called for revolutions to liberate Third World peoples from dehumanizing colonialism. Name it.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Wretched of the Earth}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  Fanon's first book was a study of the psychology of racism and colonial domination. Name it for 10.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Black Skin, White Masks}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
14.  Let's see how much you know about the science behind your next drunken binge. Answer the following for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  (5 points) Also called grain alcohol, it's supposedly present in such fine beverages as Milwaukee's Best and Olympia. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul ethanol}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul ethyl alcohol}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  (5 points) While drunk you decide to test the indestructibility of Judge buzzer systems.  You inadvertently spill your Schlitz into the gasoline, forming this solution of 10 percent ethanol and gas occasionally used in automobiles. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul gasohol}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (10 points)  During a fit of alcohol-induced self-agg
randizement you lecture on your knowledge of fermentation.  Before passing out, you loudly proclaim that maltose is converted to this sugar which is then converted to ethanol with the help of the enzyme zymase. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul glucose}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4.  (10 points)  In the last throes of your drunken stupor, you post an off-topic message to the quiz-bowl list.  In it you note that the body oxidizes ethanol in the presence of the enzyme ADH to produce this aldehyde.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul acetaldehyde}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul ethanal}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15.  FTP each name these characters from the }{\i\f21\fs18 Brothers Karamazov}{\f21\fs18 .  And yes I know this is the third Russia bonus in the pack.  Blame the authors.\par 
1.  He is the elder monk who preaches a message of love and forbearance.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Father }{\f21\fs18\ul Zosima}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  The youngest son of Fyodor, this religious figure introduces Zosima into the novel.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Alyosha}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Alexei}{\f21\fs18  (ask for more on \ldblquote Karamazov\rdblquote , while throwing something at the player giving the answer)\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  Fyodor and Dmitry are rivals for this woman\rquote s affections; at the end of the novel she prepares to follow Dmitry to Siberia.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Grushenka}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
16.  Identify the following about the history of Cuba\par 
1.  (10 points) For ten points identify the ship which whose sinking in Havana harbor precipitated both the Spanish-American War, and with US help, the eventual independence of Cuba from Spain.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: the }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Maine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  (15 points) In 1868, this war broke out in Cuba following the imposition of new taxes.  It hastened the end of slavery on the island.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ten Years }{\f21\fs18 War\par 
3.  (5 
points)  Fulgencio Batista crushed an uprising in Oriente province, but later pardoned the survivors.  This was a mistake because one of these men would return in 1956 and lead a successful revolt against him.  For a final five points name this man, the cu
rrent ruler of the island.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Fidel }{\f21\fs18\ul Castro\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
17.  Identify the following important writers of these linguistics texts for 5\par 
points each:\par 
1.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Pleasure of the Text}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Writing Degree Zero\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Roland }{\f21\fs18\ul Barthes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Reflections on Language}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Noam }{\f21\fs18\ul Chomsky}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Semiotics and the Philosophy of Language\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Umberto }{\f21\fs18\ul Eco}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. }{\i\f21\fs18  Essay on the Origin of Languages}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Jean-Jacques }{\f21\fs18\ul Rousseau}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5.  }{\i\f21\fs18 Principles of Phonology}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: N. S. }{\f21\fs18\ul Trubetzkoy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
6.  }{\i\f21\fs18 The Framework of Language}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Roman }{\f21\fs18\ul Jakobson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18.  Identify the architect 30-20-10\par 
1.  He established his reputation by winning two important architectural competitions, the first for the Minnesota State Capitol in St. Paul with a design modeled on Saint Peter's Basilica in Rome.\par 
2.  He was also chief architect of the George Washington Bridge (1927) and designed the U.S. Supreme Court building (1935) in Washington, D.C.\par 
3.  He is best known for his work in New York, where he designed the US Customs House and the Woolworth Building\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Cass }{\f21\fs18\ul Gilbert}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
19.  Answer the following concerning sound for the stated number of points.\par 
1.  (5 points) Within 10% and in meters per second, what is the speed of sound at sea level in dry air. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul 331}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul 298-364}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2.  (10 points) It's the production of visible light by the collapse of a gas bubble suspended in a fluid by an acoustic standing-wave field. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul sonoluminescence}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (15 points) In liquid helium, heat sometimes moves not through dissuion, but in a wave-like manner; that is, as sound does.  Name this phenomenon. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul second}{\f21\fs18  sound\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 20.  For the stated number of points, identify the Robert Frost poem from which each of the following lines is taken.\par 
1.  (5 points) /The land was ours before we were the land's./\par 
}\pard \s1\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  \ldblquote The }{\f21\fs18\ul Gift Outright}{\f21\fs18 \rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 2.  (10 points) /I am assured at any rate/Man's practically inexterminate./Someday I must go into that./There's always been an Ararat/Where someone someone else begat/To start the world all over at./\par 
}\pard \s1\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  \ldblquote A-}{\f21\fs18\ul Wishing Well}{\f21\fs18 \rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 3.  (5 points) /Home is the place where, when you have to go there,/They have to take you in./\par 
}\pard \s1\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  \ldblquote The }{\f21\fs18\ul Death of the Hired Man}{\f21\fs18 \rdblquote \par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 4.  (10 points) /And life is too much like a pathless wood/Where your face burns and tickles with the cobwebs/Broken across it, and one eye is weeping/From a twig's having lashed across it open./\par 
}\pard \s1\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  \ldblquote }{\f21\fs18\ul Birches}{\f21\fs18 \rdblquote \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
Identify these unlucky British ships FTPE.\par 
1.  Nelson was shot and killed at Trafalgar on the deck of this flagship, now preserved as a historical relic at Portsmouth.\par 
}\pard \li720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 H.M.S. }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Victory}{\f21\fs18   \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2.  This battleship and veteran of World War I was sunk in May 1941 when a shell from the }{\i\f21\fs18 Bismarck}{\f21\fs18  hit its powder magazine.  The ship exploded, with the loss of all but 4 sailors aboard.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 H.M.S. }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hood}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3.  These two ships, the primary constituents of Force Z, were sunk by Japanese planes in December 1941 off Malaysia, after it had been determined that British air support for the force was unnecessary.  FTP, name }{\b\f21\fs18 either}{
\f21\fs18  the battleship or battle cruiser sunk.\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 H.M.S. }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Repulse}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 H.M.S. }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Prince of Wales}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
Identify the following related mathematical things, ten points each.\par 
1.  This type of number is not the root of any polynomial equation with integer coefficients.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul transcendental}{\f21\fs18  number\par 
2.  This number is named for the person who proved there are infintely many transcendentals.  This decimal fraction is all 0's, except at every decimal place corresponding to an factorial, where it equals 1.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Liouville}{\f21\fs18 's constant\par 
3.  This theorem states that "a raised to b power" is transcendental if "a" is algebraic and not 0 or 1 and "b" is algebraic and irrational. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Gelfond}{\f21\fs18 's theorem or }{\f21\fs18\ul Gelfond-Schneider}{\f21\fs18  theorem\par 
\par 
Name the creators of these sculptures FTP each, or for 5 if you need a description of the work.\par 
1. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Gift}{\f21\fs18 , c. 1958\par 
(5 points) A painted flatiron with metal tacks\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Man }{\f21\fs18\ul Ray}{\b\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18 or Emanuel }{\f21\fs18\ul Rabinovich}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 Bicycle Wheel}{\f21\fs18 , 1951\par 
(5 points) A bicycle wheel mounted on a wooden stool\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Marcel }{\f21\fs18\ul Duchamp}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 3. (10 points) }{\i\f21\fs18 The Cocktail Party}{\f21\fs18 \par 
(5 points) A grouping of life-sized figures composed of found objects, including crates and TV sets\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Marisol}{\f21\fs18  Escobar\par 
}}