{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}{\s2 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title ACF 1999 Questions }{\author Richard Grimes}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd 
\sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals \par 
Tossups by the University of Oklahoma}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
1.  Following arrest on a civil charge, he was imprisoned, but escaped and went to Cuba and then Spain.  A former bookkeeper, he was elected to the US Congress in 1852, but found greater opportunities returning to local politics as deputy street commission
er and deputy public works commissioner.  Before being exposed by Samuel Tilden and Thomas Nast, this New York politician and his cronies bilked over $30,000,000 from the city.  FTP name the boss.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  William \ldblquote Boss\rdblquote  }{\f21\fs18\ul Tweed}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2.  "Everyone will tell you
 I am not a musician. That is correct."  These are the words of a turn-of-the-century composer whose eccentricities ranged from wearing 12 identical gray velvet suits to letting no one into his apartment for 27 years.  Many of the titles of this man
\rquote s works are equally odd, including }{\i\f21\fs18 Desiccated Embryos}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Truly Flabby Pr\'8eludes for a Dog}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Three Pieces in the Form of a Pear}{\f21\fs18 .  The 1917 premiere of his ballet }{
\i\f21\fs18 Parade}{\f21\fs18  caused a theater riot.  For ten points, name this "non-musician" whose prot\'8eg\'8es included \ldblquote The Six\rdblquote  of French music, and whose most famous composition is }{\i\f21\fs18 Trois Gymnop\'8edies}{
\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Erik }{\f21\fs18\ul Satie}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
3.  This 1949 novel is the story of two cultures: the modern, intellectual American and the timeless, sensual Saharan. It is also the story of a husband and wife, Americans who travel through North Africa on a journey of self-discovery, which leads them to
 cheat on each other.  Eventually, the husband, who is named for a New Guinea city, dies and the wife takes up with a caravan leader.  FTP, name the story of Kit and Port Moresby, the best-known work of Paul Bowles.\par 
     Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sheltering Sky}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 

4.  They are cylindrical dielectric waveguides composed of a central cylinder, surrounded by an annulus with a lower refractive index. Due to signal losses through optical attenuation and dispersion, repeaters must be used in these networks to keep signals
 clean.  For ten points, name this technology that uses total internal reflection to transfer light signals. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul fiber optics}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 5.  This battle could have led 
to the destruction of Constantinople, but the emergency reinstatement of Theodosius as emperor allowed order to be restored. It was precipitated by Roman abuse of the Visigoths, who were taking refuge on Roman territory from the Huns. The Visigoths revolte
d and marched on Constantinople; the Emperor Valens attempted to stop them, but his army was crushed and he himself was killed in, FTP, what 378 AD battle?\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Adrianople}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6.  The scene is set in a shady bower full of vines and statuary.  One of these
 statues, representing discretion, stands at left with his finger to his lips.  The central lady kicks her shoe playfully at the statue while a young man, probably her lover, moves some bushes aside to gaze up the lady's dress. Another man, unaware of the 
first's presence, pushes the lady in the title object in, FTP, what oil painting by Jean-Honore Fragonard?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Swing}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7.  The similarities between the eyes of this class and those of humans is an example of convergent evolution.  Among the most in
telligent invertebrates, they have tentacles around their mouths and often have reduced or absent shells.  They, like gastropods and bivalves, are molluscs.  For ten points, name this class which includes the extinct ammonites, the chambered Nautilus, squi
d, and octopi. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cephalopod}{\f21\fs18 s (SEF-a-lo-pods or KEF-a-lo-pods)\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 8.  "He'd a French cocked-hat on his forehead, a bunch of lace at his chin, a coat out of claret velvet, and breeches of brown doeskin: They fitted with never a wrinkle; his boots were 
up to his thigh!  And he rode with a jeweled twinkle, his pistol butts a-twinkle, his rapier hilt a-twinkle, under the jeweled sky."  His rival for the love of Bess is only Tim, the ugly, dimwitted ostler, but criminals don't often live happily ever after.
  FTP, name this title character of a Noyes poem who avoids death when Bess commits suicide to warn him.\par 
     Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Highwayman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
9.  From 1853 to 1855, he lived in semipoverty in New Orleans, making plans for his homeland and speaking with other exile
s. He returned to become Secretary of State under Alvarez and instituted many liberal reforms, culminating in the Constitution of 1857.  This led to a rebellion a year later, causing the President to flee and placing this man in power. FTP, name this oppon
ent of Maximillian, often called the "Lincoln of Mexico."\par 
\tab Answer: Benito Pablo }{\f21\fs18\ul Juarez}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10.  A native of Prague, this German left his position at Frankfurt for the U.S. when the Nazis rose to power, and spent the last ten years of his life teaching at the 
New School for Social Research in New York City before his death in 1943.  His study of the phenomenon of apparent movement led to the creation of a new school of psychological thought, the principles of which were published posthumously in the book }{
\i\f21\fs18 Productive Thinking}{\f21\fs18 .  For ten points name this man, who, with Wolfgang Kohler and Kurt Koffka, founded Gestalt. \par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Max }{\f21\fs18\ul Wertheimer}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
11.  It is not valid in the presence of mutations, natural selection, or non-random mating. But, for a large population with
out the above factors, it states that the proportion of alleles at a given locus remains constant.  For ten points, what rule, named for a British mathematician and a German physician, forms the basis of population genetics.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Hardy-Weinberg}{\f21\fs18  Rule\par 
\par 
12.  He spent seven years visiting places like the Island of Sheep, the Island of Grapes, and the Paradise of Birds and encountering folks like Paul the Hermit, Judas, and Jasconius, the fish as big as an island.  This seems a little much when all he ha
d to do was sail west from the monastery on Delightful Island to reach the Promised Land, but it makes good allegory.  FTP, name this semi-legendary monk who some cite as the Irish discoverer of America.\par 
\tab Answer: St. }{\f21\fs18\ul Brendan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
13.  After the death of her cotton-broker husband in 1882, she left Louisiana to return to her native St. Louis.  Her literary career blossomed in the 1890's, earning her a reputation as a strumpet at the time, but modern acclaim as a powerful early femini
st.  Her collections }{\i\f21\fs18 Bayou Folk}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 A Night in Arcadie}{\f21\fs18 
, containing short works such as "The Story of An Hour," were more neutrally recieved than her last novel, which shocked Victorian sensibilities with its frank portrayal of adultery.  FTP name the then-controversial author who gave up writing after the bit
ter response to her 1899 novel }{\i\f21\fs18 The Awakening}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: Kate }{\f21\fs18\ul Chopin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 14.  The king was almost convinced to aid the Dutch in their rebellion against rival Spain.  The Queen Mother saw France in no position to intervene.  So she came up
 with a plan.  She invited dozens of nobles to her niece's wedding, and pressured her son, Charles IX, to get rid of them all.  De Coligny, Henri de Navarre, and hundreds of Protestant nobles and peasants were butchered in chaos which would spread througho
ut France and effectively diminish the strength of the French Reformation.  For ten points, give the name this outburst of violence. \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul St. Bartholomew's Day}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Massacre}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15.  No matter the axes, the oldest objects fall in the the lower left and rapidl
y varying objects occupy a special strip.  The horizontal axis can be B minus V color, spectral class, or effective temperature while the vertical axis can be luminosity or absolute magnitude.  For ten points, another group, the Main Sequence, makes up 90 
percent of what astronomical diagram.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hertzsprung-Russell}{\f21\fs18  diagram\par 
\par 
16.  It was named for the German statesman chosen By Wilhelm II to replace Bismarck as imperial chancellor in 1890.  It was British territory until 1893, and was then ceded to Germ
any so that Southwest Africa could have access to the Indian Ocean via the Zambezi River.  FTP, name this 280 mile long by 65 mile wide "strip" of northeast Namibia.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Caprivi}{\f21\fs18  Strip\par 
\par 

17.  It led to a change in building codes to require outward swinging doors flanking a revolving door.  It lasted only 45 minutes but claimed 490 lives.  Many died trying to escape through the revolving door but most were overcome by fumes from the vaporiz
ing upholstery.  The club was especially crowded, thanks to the many people who came to celebrate a key Boston College football victory.  FTP, name this popular Boston nightclub, the site of a devastating fire on November 28, 1942.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Cocoanut Grove}{\f21\fs18  Fire\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
18.  It has been called the poem that contains the universe, and the scope of its narrative does address everything from government to salvation.  The central themes, set in the context of the war between the Pandavas and Kauravas, are the evil destruction
 of war and the universal search for peace.  FTP try to give the name of the longest epic in the world, consisting of 88,000 Sanskrit verses, that according to Hindu tradition was dictated by Vyasa the bard to the scholar-god Ganesh.\par 
}\pard \s2\fi720 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Mahabharata}{\i\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 

19.  Most famously measured by the Pauling scale, it is defined as the "power of an atom when in a molecule to attract electrons to itself".  In practice it is used to find which molecule will be a better electron donor, or whether ionic or covalent bonds 
will form.  For ten points, name this quantity for which Pauling arbitrarily set fluorine equal to 4.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul electronegativity}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

20.  This philosopher's first book was published in 1922 and attracted much attention for its theory that language is made of elementary propositions, that if all true elementary propositions were listed the world would be completely described, and that re
ligion, ethics and aesthetics do not consist of such propositions and are therefore gibberish. In later years he repudiated these ideas, expounding his theories of "language games" and "word families" in 1953's }{\i\f21\fs18 Philosophical Investigations}{
\f21\fs18 . FTP, name this author of the }{\i\f21\fs18 Blue and Brown Books}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Ludwig }{\f21\fs18\ul Wittgenstein}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

T1. A contemporary of Brecht, this Frenchman compared his own ideas to the plague, but meant it in a good way.  Well, he did suffer from mental illness for many years.  Rejecting the theater of his day, he tried to eliminate the spoken word from drama as m
uch as possible, thus jolting the audience and forcing them to contemplate inn
er meaning. If this seems a tad ambiguous, you're not alone:  he is hailed as a great influence on theater, partially because of the opposing interpretations of his few works.  FTP, name this author of the essay collection }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Theater and Its Double}{\f21\fs18 , the progenitor of the "theater of cruelty."\par 
\tab Answer: Antonin }{\f21\fs18\ul Artaud}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
T2. In static fluids, it forms the diagonal components of the stress tensor.  For black-body radiation it is one-third of the energy density.  In ideal gases, it is the product of Boltzman's 
constant, the number density, and the temperature. For ten points, name this physical quantity, measured in units of Pascals and pounds per square inch. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pressure}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

T3.  It was confined to India for almost two thousand years, before it was described by Hindu physicians in 400 B.C. There were six major pandemics throughout the world in the 1800s. In a famous London outbreak in 1854, John Snow suggested removing a pump 
handle to stop the spread. For ten points, name this disease spread by ingestion of fecally contaminated food and water. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cholera}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
He closes the evening's performance of Baro's "La Clorise" by threatening the lead actor, whom he deems unworthy of the stage. The audience is not disappointed, however, for he pays them all back and, when insulted by Valvert, challenges the viscount to a 
duel onstage, which he wins in a remarkable manner. FTP, identify this title character who composes a descriptive ballad while slaying the man who dared insult his "rather large" nose.\par 
}\pard\plain \fi720 \f22 {\f21\fs18 Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cyrano}{\f21\fs18  de Bergerac \page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals \par 
}\pard {\b\f21\fs18 Boni by the University of Oklahoma}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1.  From the given characters, FTP identify the American drama and its author, 5 points per piece of information.\par 
1.  Lorna Moore and Mr. Bonaparte\par 
 Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Golden Boy}{\f21\fs18  by Clifford }{\f21\fs18\ul Odets}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Larry and Hickey\par 
 Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Iceman Cometh}{\f21\fs18  by Eugene }{\f21\fs18\ul O'Neill}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Bagtry Hubbard and Birdie\par 
 Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Little Foxes}{\f21\fs18  by Lillian }{\f21\fs18\ul Hellman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Identify the answers to this science question, brought to you by the letter P and the numbers 5, 10, and 15.\par 
1.  (5 points) This is the process by which partially digested food is passed along the esophagus by means of smooth muscle contractions. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul peristalsis\par 
}{\f21\fs18 2.  (10 points) In this process, droplets of extracellular fluid are incorporated into the cell in small vesicles.  It is a specific example of endocytosis. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pinocytosis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (15 points) The retention of ancestral juvenile features in adult members of a species, such as a mature salamander retaining tadpole characteristics like gills. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul paedomorphosis}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul pedomorphosis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3.  Identify the following existential works for ten points each, five if you need an author.\par 
1.  (10 points) This work considers the human being, or Dasein, existing in a fallen state, but able to achieve authentic existence by making meaningful choices, holding on to his past and actively anticipating his future.\par 
(5 points) Martin Heidegger\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Being and Time}{\f21\fs18 \par 

2.  (10 points) This work is in two parts, one representing the aesthetic life as typified by a nameless pleasure seeker, and the other the ethical life as incarnated in stern Judge William.  It emphasizes the role of conscious choice in attaining full sel
fhood.\par 
(5 points) Soren Kierkegaard\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Either/Or}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  (10 points) This work is concerned with the difference between being-in-itself and being-for-itself, as well as the role of "bad faith" in human existence.\par 
(5 points) Jean-Paul Sartre\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Being and Nothingness}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4.  Name these zany players from the Hundred Years' War, for ten points apiece.\par 
1.  The French king captured at Poitiers, he shared a jail with Scotland's King David.  He was finally returned after an immense ransom was paid.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul John}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul II}{\f21\fs18  (The Good)\par 
2.  This English king's nine-year reign marked a resumption of active hostilties. His successes in the 1410s, especially at Agincourt, brought England as close as ever to conquering France.  In 1420, French king Charles VI r
ecognized him as the rightful heir to France.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Henry}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul V}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Joan of Arc persuaded him to let her lead French armies and lift the siege of Orl\'8e
ans.  This she did, and this king was crowned in the traditional city, Rheims.  However, he wasn't especially grateful, since he made no effort to rescue her after her capture by the English.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Charles}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul VII}{\f21\fs18  (The Victorious)\par 
 \par 
5.  Botany to the rescue! For ten points each, name the following related plant terms.\par 
1. This tissue type is thin-walled and unspecialized with several different functions.  It forms the soft tissue of fruits and the mesophyll in leaves.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul parenchyma}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul fundamental}{\f21\fs18  tissue or }{\f21\fs18\ul ground}{\f21\fs18  tissue\par 
2. Usually made of parenchyma cells, this strand of spongy tissue at the center of roots and stems can be harvested and made into headgear.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pith\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3. This type of parenchyma contains chloroplasts and thus is a site of photosynthesis. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chlorenchyma\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 6.  Identify the poem from first lines, FTP each, or for five if you need the author.\par 
1. (10 points) "In heaven a spirit doth dwell, whose heart-strings are a lute;"\par 
(5 points) Edgar Allan Poe\par 
     Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul Israfel}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
2. (10 points) "That is no country for old men."\par 
(5 points) William Butler Yeats\par 
     Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul Sailing to Byzantium}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
3. (10 points) "On the shore of the empty sea/ He stood, full of great thoughts."\par 
(5 points) Aleksandr Pushkin\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18      Answer: "The }{\f21\fs18\ul Bronze Horseman}{\f21\fs18 " (accept \ldblquote }{\f21\fs18\ul Mednyi vsadnik\rdblquote }{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
7.  If ain\rquote t baroque, don\rquote t fix it.  Answer the following questions about baroque music FTSNOP.\par 
1. (5)  He was one of the most important composers of the pre-Bach Baroque, but today he is a one-hit wonder, known almost exclusively for the }{\i\f21\fs18 Canon and Gigue in D.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:  Johann }{\f21\fs18\ul Pachelbel}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10)  The best known section of this 1743 Handel oratorio is \ldblquote Let the bright seraphim.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Samson}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 3.  (15)  This French composer of Italian descent pioneered the \ldblquote opera-ballet\rdblquote  form, and produced such works 1702\rquote s }{\i\f21\fs18 Tancrede}{\f21\fs18  and 1712\rquote s }{\i\f21\fs18 Idomenee}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer:  Andre }{\f21\fs18\ul Campra}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\par 
8.  For ten points each name the random piece of United States legislation. Well, not completely random, they're all from the nineteenth century.\par 
1.  This treaty of 1850 asserted the neutrality of any canal through Central America, and put vague restrictions on the colonization of Central America.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Clayton-Bulwer}{\f21\fs18  Treaty\par 
2.  This act directed the secretary of the treasury to gather and hold gold reserves equal to the amount of greenbacks tendered after January 1, 1879.  This occurred during Ulysses S. Grant's presidency.\par 
\tab Answer: Resumption of }{\f21\fs18\ul Specie}{\f21\fs18  Act.\par 
3.  This act was a response to the high tariffs of the McKinley Tariff act and others.  It lowered some tariffs, but put higher duties on other goods. It became a law in 1894 during Grover Cleveland's second term without his signature.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wilson-Gorman}{\f21\fs18  Act\par 
\par 
9.  Mass times acceleration equals fun! For ten points each, identify each of the following forces.\par 
1. Technically not a force, it's the energy per charge imparted by a source such as a battery.  It is commonly measured in volts. \par 
\tab Answer:}{\f21\fs18\ul  electromotive}{\f21\fs18  force (prompt, with an annoyed look, on }{\f21\fs18\ul voltage}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
2. A specific case of van der Waals forces, these time-varying attractions are caused by small fluctuations in the electronic structure of molecules. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul London}{\f21\fs18  dispersion forces\par 
3. A combination of a particle's charge, velocity, and the local electromagnetic fields, this is the electromagnetic force on a particle. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lorentz}{\f21\fs18  force\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 10.  The names of five national capitals begin with the letter "H."  For five points apiece and a five point bonus for all five, name them.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Havana}{\f21\fs18  (Cuba), }{\f21\fs18\ul Helsinki}{\f21\fs18  (Finland), }{\f21\fs18\ul Honiara}{\f21\fs18  (Solomon Islands)\par 
}\pard \fi720 {\f21\fs18\ul Hanoi}{\f21\fs18  (Vietnam), }{\f21\fs18\ul Harare}{\f21\fs18  (Zimbabwe)}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 11.  Identify these American short stories from a plot summary and the author's name, FTP each.\par 
1.  By Sherwood Anderson, this tells the story of a young boy who watches his father's attempts to conquer the title object at his restaurant in Bidwell, Ohio.\par 
     Answer: "The }{\f21\fs18\ul Triumph of the Egg}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
2.  By John Updike, this story features a clerk who quits his job in a grocery store in support of women in bathing suits, after the manager, claiming they are indecent, orders them out of the store.\par 
     Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul A & P}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
3.  By Theodore Dreiser, this story tells of an old man who goes slightly crazed and wanders the countryside looking for his dead wife, whom he believes is just lost.\par 
     Answer: "The }{\f21\fs18\ul Lost Phoebe}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 12. Answer the following about Chinese dynasties for ten points each:\par 
1.  This short-lived dynasty in the third century BC was charged by later historians with "Ten Crimes", which included purging scholars. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This dynasty is considered by many to have ruled during China's golden age. It was founded when Li Yuan overthrew the last Sui emperor.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tang}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This dynasty is divided into Western and Eastern periods, separated by the brief rule of revolutionary Wang Mang. After it collapsed, China was without a unified government for 400 years.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Han}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13.  The death of all 
the gods- a subject fit for a bonus if ever there was one.  However, if you've played ACF before, you've probably heard about Ragnarok ad nauseam.  There is more to Norse mythology, you know. Like, um, gold! Answer the following golden questions FTP each.
\par 
1.  Daughter of Njord, this most beautiful goddess habitually wore golden jewelry and even wept golden tears when upset.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Freyja}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2.  Speaking of Freyja and jewelry, her most prized adornment was this golden necklace of marvelous workmanship, which she obtained by sleeping with four dwarves.\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18       Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Brisingamen}{\f21\fs18  (or, The }{\f21\fs18\ul Necklace of the Brisings}{\f21\fs18 )\par 

3.  Some of the other gods' most prized possessions, like Mjolnir and Gungnir, were given to them during a contest that started when Loki cut off the shimmering golden hair of this goddess, the wife of Thor.  Bad move.  Loki had to replace it with hair mad
e from actual gold, but lost the contest anyway.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sif}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14.  Everybody loves scientists, right?  And everybody loves Muslims, right? So, answer the following questions about Muslim scientists FTP each. (All right, so not everybody loves Muslims or scientists. So sue us.)\par 
1.  This tenth century Persian is known for his Aristotelian philosophy with Neoplatonic influences and his }{\f21\fs18\ul Canon of Medicine}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ibn Sina}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Avicenna}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  This Persian mathematician's work }{\i\f21\fs18 The Book of Integration and Equation}{\f21\fs18  was the source of the term "algebra". \par 
\tab Answer: al-}{\f21\fs18\ul Khwarizmi}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Algorizm}{\f21\fs18  or al-}{\f21\fs18\ul Khorezmi}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3.  This Persian pioneered spherical trigonometry and modified the Ptolemaic system to preserve uniform circular motion.  He was astrologer to Hulegu Khan.\par 
\tab Answer: Nasir al-Din al-}{\f21\fs18\ul Tusi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
15.  Here it comes--the linking bonus du tournament (actually, there may be more).  For ten points each, identify the new name of the literary work after the author goes on a binge from a description.  For example, if Mary Chase came up with the idea of a 
huge invisible rabbit while drinking a cocktail of vodka, orange juice and galliano, her play would be titled }{\i\f21\fs18 Harvey Wallbanger}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
1.  John Hersey's inspiring tale of Franklin Roosevelt's fight with polio brought on by drinking too many glasses of Mexican liquor, orange juice, and grenadine.\par 
     Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tequila Sunrise at Campobello}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Wilkie Collins's harrowing tale of a kidnapped woman and her fiance's efforts to rescue her, while drinking many many Vodka, cream, and Kahlua cocktails.\par 
     Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Woman in White Russian}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  William Inge received an Academy Award for the screenplay for this gripping drama in a small Kansas town where Bud's infidelity drives Deanie to madness, while the town looks on and drinks lethal ice cream and cr\'8ame de menthe combinations.\par 
     Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Splendor in the Grasshopper\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
16.  Name these Athenian leaders for ten points each:\par 
1.  This man was tyrant of Athens until 510 BC. When his brother Hipparchos was killed in 514 BC, he became cruel and repressive and was eventually overthrown with help from the Spartans.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hippias}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  The father of Hippias, he was Solon's cousin and friend and ruled benevolently as tyrant for twenty years.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pisistratus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This conservative general and son of Miltiades was the main power in Athens for nine years before being exiled by his opponent Pericles. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Cimon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17.  Given a verse about wives tell in which book of the Bible it appears for the stated number points.\par 
1.  (5) "And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the last seven plagues, and talked with me, saying, come hither, I will show thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Revelation}{\f21\fs18  of St. John the Divine (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Apocalypse}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2. (15) "Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy youth."\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Proverbs}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10) "Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity:\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ecclesiastes}{\f21\fs18  or the }{\f21\fs18\ul Preacher\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
18.  In }{\i\f21\fs18 Jurassic Park}{\f21\fs18 , it's postulated that an eight-year-old kid knows more about dinosaurs than an average adult. Well, you're smarter than some punk kid, right?  Identify the dinosaur from a description, FTP each.\par 
1.  (5 points) Descended from nothosaurs, this group of aquatic predators included the elasmosaurs and pliosaurs. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul plesiosaurs}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul plesiosaurus}{\f21\fs18  grudgingly)\par 
2.  (5 points) The generic name for flying reptiles, it included the dimorphodons and pterodactyls.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pterosaurs}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept }{\f21\fs18\ul pteranodons}{\f21\fs18  which were a distinct subgroup of the pterosaurs)\par 
3.  (10 points) This group include the nodosaurs, but more familiar examples had tail clubs, spikes embedded in bony back plates, and horns projecting from the back of the head. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ankylosaurs}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul ankylosaurus}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
4.  (10 points) Probably a distant mammalian ancestor, this pelycosaur had a saillike fan of spines connected by a membrane on its back. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul dimetrodon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19.  Identify the painters of the following works on a theme, for ten points apiece.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Death and Life}{\f21\fs18 \par 
      Answer: Gustav }{\f21\fs18\ul Klimt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Death and Fire}{\f21\fs18 \par 
      Answer: Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Klee}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Death in the Sickroom}{\f21\fs18 \par 
      Answer: Edvard }{\f21\fs18\ul Munch\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 20.  Give the title of a work given the original or working title, for the stated number of points:\par 
1. (5) Stephen Hero\par 
     Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (5) First Impressions\par 
     Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Pride and Predjudice}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10) If I Forget Thee, Jerusalem\par 
     Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The}{\i\f21\fs18\ul  Wild Palms}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. (10) He Do the Police in Different Voices\par 
     Answer: "The }{\f21\fs18\ul Waste Land}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \par 
FTP each name the following astronomical terms.\par 
1. The apparent path the sun traces against the background stars.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ecliptic}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. With a period of nearly 26,000 years, it causes the celestial poles to shift over time, as well as a migration of the solstices and equinoxes through the calendar.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Precession}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. The amount of time it takes the Earth to rotate 360 degrees, relative to the stars.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Sidereal Day}{\f21\fs18   \par 
\par 
Answer the following about a pivotal period of Japanese history, 5-10-15.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 \f22\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1. (5 points)  Upon ascending to the throne in 1867, the new emperor took this name meaning "enlightened rule"\par 
}\pard\plain \f22 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Meiji}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) This was Meiji's name during the Tokugawa Shogunate, before he became emperor.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mutsuhito}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) One of the men who aided in the inception of the Meiji Restoration, this samurai led a failed rebellion against the Meiji regime in 1876.\par 
\tab Answer: Saigo Takamori (either name is acceptable)\par 
\par 
For ten points each, answer these related questions from computer science.\par 
1. To find this representation of a negative binary number, take the postive number and change all the 1's to 0's and 0's to 1's. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul one's complement}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Closely related to one's complement, here the zeroes and ones are interchanged and one is added to the result. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul two's complement}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. For a four-bit register give the binary representation of two's complement negative 6.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1010}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}