{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{
\s255\keepn \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\f2010\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}{\s2 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title 
The artist was undoubtedly inspired to create this painting by Lord Byron’s narrative poem on the same subject, though he repla}{\author Brian Rostron}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere 
\pard\plain \s1 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Quincy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. The artist was undoubtedly inspired to create this painting by Lord Byron\rquote s narrative poem on the same subject, though he replaces Byron\rquote 
s sacrificial suicide with orgiastic destruction. Everything swirls around the empty foot of the bed, but details fade toward the edge of the canvas. Most conspicuous are the tortu
red and dying bodies of the women, especially the one in the foreground dispatched by a murderous slave. The central figure lies on his bed and watches gloomily as his most precious possessions \endash  women, horses, and treasure \endash 
 are destroyed in his sight. FTP, what is this Eugene Delacroix painting about the downfall of the mythical last king of Assyria?\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Death of Sardanapalus}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 2. It's the preferred procedure to diagnose subarachnoid hemorrhaging.  Conceived by Allan Cormack and Godfrey Hounsfield, in
 it an X-ray source and photon detectors are rotated about the body. Absorption data is numerically analyzed to produce a sharp cross-sectional map of body tissue.  This technique, for ten points, was developed in the early 1970's and is known by what acro
nymic name. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul CAT}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul CT}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul computerized axial tomography}{\f21\fs18 , etc. Also }{\f21\fs18\ul computerized}{\f21\fs18  may be replaced by }{\f21\fs18\ul computed}{\f21\fs18 ) scanning
\par 
\par 
3. Led by Harrison Gray Otis, it resulted in agreement on a couple of major issues \endash  the adoption of measures recommending the use of federal troops for state defense, and the support of a constitutional amendment to eliminate the \ldblquote 
three-fifths clause.\rdblquote  However, its effectiveness would be completely hamstrung by the news of an American victory at the Battle of New Orleans.  FTP, w
hat was this 1814 to 1815 meeting of Federalists protesting U.S. policy during the War of 1812?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hartford Convention}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18 4. As it opens the old trees and the young trees argue; the former are content to stand still, while the latter are bored and lon
g for excitement. They are interrupted by wild geese, who bring news of the impending birth of the title character, who will \ldblquote bring them to another life.\rdblquote  The Ballad-Singer, appearing throughout the opera, tells of the title character
\rquote s unhappy marriage to
 Carrie, and the birth of his daughter Tiny. We also see his hiring of Sam Sharkey and Ben Benny as cooks, and Hel Helson, the best logger, as foreman. FTP, what is this Benjamin Britten opera, based on the titular American folk hero, who has no singing pa
rts, just like his pet blue ox?\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Paul Bunyan}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
5. The main character does not know of her illegitimate origins, and her mother believes her to be dead. Her father's lawyer, Mr. Tullinghorn, suspects her mother's secret and reveals it before he is mysteriously killed. The mother, Lady Dedlock is under s
uspicion, yet she too is murdered.  Finally, Mr. Bucket shows that the Lady's maid is actually responsible for the deaths. A secondary plotline of the novel centers on the lawsuit of Jarndyce vs. Jarndy
ce over proper inheritance of family assets. FTP, what is this Charles Dickens novel, in which several of the characters including the heroine, Esther Summerson, live in a "dreary abode?"\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bleak House}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
6. About a third of the province consists of the Interior Plains, divided into the larger First Prairie Level and the smaller Second Prairie Level. Its highest point is Baldy Mountain and much of the province is drained by the Nelson and Churchill rivers, 
both of which drain into Hudson Bay. Some of its cities include Flin Flon, The Pas, and Brandon. Along with Ontario and Minnesota it shares the Lake of the Woods. FTP, what is this Canadian province with its capital at Winnipeg?\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Manitoba\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18 7. The name\rquote 
s the same. The one of Provence raised an invasion force against rebel French barons, only to have the fleet wrecked at Sluis, Flanders. The one of Castile is supposed to have saved the life of Edward I of England at Acre by sucking poison from
 a dagger wound, though the story is evidently ap
ocryphal. The one of Guyenne is known by a better name and accompanied Louis VII of France on crusade, though the two would be estranged during the journey. She was the mother of Richard I the Lion-Heart and John of England. FTP, identify this shared name 
most famous for its Aquitaine member.\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Eleanor\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
8. These cytokines were first recognized in 1957 by Alick Isaacs and Jean Lindenmann.  The beta, or fibroblast varieties, are made by skin cells; white blood cells make the alpha varieties. The gamma 
varieties are made by lymphocytes after antigen stimulation and are also called interleukins.  For ten points, what class of compounds inhibits the transcription of viral nucleic acid, thus giving them their name. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul interferon}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
9. A contributor to the daily }{\i\f21\fs18 Action Nationale}{\f21\fs18 , he was a leading member of Les Groupe des Griots, a famous circle of writers. A supporter of President Dumarsais Estime, he went underground and organized resistance upon Estime
\rquote s overthrow. After recovering from a 1959 heart attack, he imprisoned his aide, Clement Barbot, with whom he had founded the bogeymen, or Tontons Macoutes. FTP, name this physician who served 14 years as president of Haiti.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul F}{\f21\fs18 rancois }{\f21\fs18\ul Duvalier}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Pap Doc Duvalier}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on just \ldblquote Duvalier\rdblquote  or just \ldblquote Papa Doc\rdblquote )\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 10. Her poems appear in the collections }{\i\f21\fs18 Fruits and Vegetables}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Half-Lives}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Loveroot}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 At the Edge of the Body}{
\f21\fs18 . Her work }{\i\f21\fs18 Fanny}{\f21\fs18  is a picaresque novel in a pseudo-18th century style, while }{\i\f21\fs18 How To Save Your Own Life}{\f21\fs18  was the 1977 sequel to her 
1973 best seller. That best seller told of a neurotic New York woman in her thirties enjoying a lively two-week sexual experience with an existentialist Englishman. FTP, name this author, best known for the work }{\i\f21\fs18 Fear of Flying}{\f21\fs18 .
\par 
\tab Answer: Erica }{\f21\fs18\ul Jong}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
11. It was captained by George Nares while Sir C. Wyville Thomson led the scientists. Launched in 1872, it made 492 deep soundings and 133 dredgings.  Among its important findings were the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, a worldwide mapping of oceanic sediments, and a
 catalog of abyssal animals.  For ten points, name this oceanographic exploration which lent its name to a Space Shuttle.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Challenger}{\f21\fs18  expedition\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 12. He first gained notoriety with the publication of his article \ldblquote Individual and Mass Behaviour in Extreme Situations.\rdblquote 
 The article examined human adaptability to the stresses of concentration camp life, a life he had personally experienced during his imprisonment at Dachau and Buchenwald. In 1944 he was appointed head of the Chicago\rquote s Sonia Shankman Orthogenic 
School, beginning work in the psychological field for which he would be remembered. Books detailing such work include }{\i\f21\fs18 Love Is Not Enough}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Truants from Life}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Informed Heart}{\f21\fs18 
, and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Uses of Enchantment}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, identify this Austrian-born U.S. psychologist, known for his work in treating and educating emotionally disturbed children, notably autistic children.\par 
\tab Answer: Bruno }{\f21\fs18\ul Bettelheim}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. He liked to concentrate on mischievous figures with his symphonic poems as evidenced by }{\i\f21\fs18 Vodnik}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 The Water Goblin}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Polednice}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 The Noonday Witch}{
\f21\fs18 . His friendship with Fritz Simrock was beneficial, for Simrock\rquote s firm gained him worldwide attention with the publication of his }{\i\f21\fs18 Moravian Duets}{\f21\fs18 . Though he was especially proud of his choral works, only the }{
\i\f21\fs18 Stabat Mater}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Te Deum}{\f21\fs18 
 continue to be regularly performed today. His best known work might have been influenced by his time spent in Iowa and possibly based on Negro spirituals. FTP, identify this composer of }{\i\f21\fs18 Humoresque}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Slavonic Dances}
{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Symphony No. 9}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 From the New World}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Antonin (Leopold) }{\f21\fs18\ul Dvorak}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 

14. Although a positive Lyapunov exponent is not required for this behavior, it is typical.  It cannot occur in two-dimensional phase spaces but in three-dimensional flows such as the Lorenz equations used in an early weather simulation it can appear.  For
 ten points, what term describes apparently random behavior in a deterministic system caused by sensitivity to initial conditions. \par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chaos}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
15. At its end, the only surviving member of the central family concludes, "Love isn't permitted to me. The dead are too strong!" After the father returns home at the close of the Civil War, he is poisoned by his wife, who commits suicide when she finds th
at her lover, Adam Brant, has been killed by her son. That son, Orin, makes an incestuous proposal to his sister, Lavinia, before he shoots himself. Its three parts are }{\i\f21\fs18 Homecoming}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Hunted}{\f21\fs18 , and }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Haunted}{\f21\fs18 . FTP, what is this dramatic trilogy centering on the Mannon family, based on an ancient Greek legend, and written by Eugene O'Neill?\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Mourning Becomes Electra}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 16. When Athens founded a colony at Thurii, this man was given the task of drawing up its laws. He professed to teach }{\i\f21\fs18 arete}{\f21\fs18 
, honor or nobility, which his contemporaries called the simple technique of successful living. He ridiculed the philosophic speculations of Socrates and Plato about what was the \ldblquote real\rdblquote  world, yet he wrote a book, }{\i\f21\fs18 
On the Gods}{\f21\fs18 , which questioned the gods\rquote  existence. His books were burned and he would be expelled from Athens despite his friendship with Pericles. FTP, what man, considered the first Sophist, is best remembered for his motto 
\ldblquote Man is the measure of all things?\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Protagoras}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. The first type was used by the Germans against Belgian forts as early as 1914.  The second set, which totaled four in number, were moved to their emplacements on railway tracks because of their size.  Nicknamed \ldblquote Paris guns,\rdblquote 
 these weapons had a range of 75 miles and caused hun
dreds of deaths when they were first used to shell the French capital in early 1918.  FTP give the common nickname of these two weapon systems, both named for the powerful head of the Krupp munitions dynasty.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Big Bertha}{\f21\fs18 \par 
  \par 
18. Reflecting on his Irish-Cherokee heritage, he remarked, \ldblquote My ancestors didn\rquote t come over on the }{\i\f21\fs18 Mayflower}{\f21\fs18 --they met the boat.\rdblquote   On the subject of government, he declared, \ldblquote 
I tell you folks, all politics is apple sauce.\rdblquote   On the administration of his close personal friend Calvin Coolidge, \ldblquote He didn\rquote t do nothing, but that\rquote s what we wanted done.\rdblquote 
  FTP name this man who said that he never met a man he didn\rquote t like.\par 
\tab Answer: Will }{\f21\fs18\ul Rogers\par 
}{\f21\fs18      \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
19. It survives in several distinct versions that scholars refer to as the A-, B-, C-, and Z-texts. The sections of the Poem are called "Passus," Latin for "step", and vary in number depending upon the version. Taking the form of a dream vision, the poem's
 prologue introduces the dreamer's vision of the Field of Folk, a representation of English so
ciety of the time and its failures to live in accordance with Christian principles. Though the authorship is uncertain, the author's name is derived from the dreamer's claim that "My name is Long Will." FTP, identify this 14th century English poem, general
ly attributed to William Langland.\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The Vision of }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Piers Plowman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20. They are fixed points of the circular restricted three-body problem.  The first three are unstable to radial perturbations but the final two are in islands of stability.  The SoHO
 spacecraft orbits one in the Earth-Sun system, and for ten points, two in the Earth-Moon system are likely sites for space colonies built at what points named for a French mathematician. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lagrange}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Lagrangian}{\f21\fs18  points\par 
\par 

T1. Pauling suggested it is a hybrid of two resonant structures originally thought to be in equilibrium.  The six pi electrons are delocalized over the entire ring so that the observed bond distance of 1.4 angstroms is midway between the single-bond and do
uble-bond distances.  For ten points, name this simplest aromatic hydrocarbon whose basic structure is a hexagon of carbon atoms.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul benzene}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 
T2. The play is dedicated to Eleonara Duse, whose romantic liaison with the author led to the publication of The Flame of Life. It details the dilemma of the brilliant sculptor, Lucio Settala.  Lucio is feels a strong sense of loyalty to his devoted wife, 
Silvia, but he can not help falling in love with his artistic model, the title character. Eventually he leaves his wife for the model
, who he feels is his true artistic inspiration. FTP, identify this Gabriele D'Annunzio drama that shares its name with an alternate title for the Mona Lisa as well as the most famous opera of Amilcare Ponchielli.\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul La Gioconda}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 

T3. Bloodstone, agate, and onyx are chalcedonic varieties of this mineral.  Other color variations arise from substituting atoms for silicon; iron for citrine and amethysts, titanium for the rose variety.  When cemented it makes sandstone and when fused, s
ilica glass.  For ten points, identify this mineral composed of crystalline silicon dioxide.\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul quartz}{\f21\fs18 \page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Quincy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1. Answer the following questions about Alban Berg for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab For 5 points each, name his only two operas\par 
}\pard \qj {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lulu}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Wozzeck}{\f21\fs18  (voy check)\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab For 15 points, Lulu was based on the two plays }{\i\f21\fs18 Der}{\f21\fs18  }{\i\f21\fs18 Erdgeist}{\f21\fs18 ,}{\i\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18 or}{\i\f21\fs18  The Earth Spirit}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 
Die Buchse der Pandora}{\f21\fs18 , or }{\i\f21\fs18 Pandora\rquote s Box}{\f21\fs18 , by this man. \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: Frank }{\f21\fs18\ul Wedekind}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab For 5 points, Berg was an apprentice to this Austro-Hungarian, best known as the leader of the movement toward atonality, culminating in his development of the twelve-tone method of composition.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: Arnold }{\f21\fs18\ul Schonberg}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Schoenberg}{\f21\fs18  (shurn berk)\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 2. Answer the following questions about race relations during Teddy Roosevelt\rquote s administration for 10 points each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab Japan was enraged over segregation of and outright discrimination against Japanese and Japanese-American children in this city\rquote s public school system.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul San Francisco}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab These understandings of 1907 and 1908 allowed for the Japanese to not issue passports to laborers and for the U.S. to exclude Japanese immigrants with other foreign passports.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gentleman\rquote s Agreements}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab 
This 1906 incident in Texas resulted in the dishonorable discharge of three African-American army companies. It had started with the shooting of a white bartender and police officer, and ended with unfounded blame placed on the black soldiers.\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Brownsville Affair}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 3. Identify the following 17th century philosophers from works, for 10 points apiece.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Provincial Letters}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Blaise }{\f21\fs18\ul Pascal}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 De jure belli et pacis}{\f21\fs18  (day you-ray belly et pack-is)\par 
\tab Answer: Hugo }{\f21\fs18\ul Grotius\par 
}{\f21\fs18 3. }{\i\f21\fs18 System Theologicum}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Gottfried von }{\f21\fs18\ul Leibnitz}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Identify the Henry James work from lesser-known characters for 10 points each, 5 points for well-known ones.\par 
}\pard \s2\tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab (10) Prince Amerigo, Fanny Assingham\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 (5) Maggie and Adam Verver\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Golden Bowl}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10) Madame Merle\par 
   (5) Isabel Archer, Gilbert Osmond\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Portrait of a Lady}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s2\tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab (10) Miss Jessel\par 
}\pard \s2 {\f21\fs18 (5) Miles and Flora, Peter Quint\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Turn of the Screw}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
5. Given the symptoms, identify the following endocrine disorders for 10 points each. \par 
1. A type of goiter, common in women, this form of hypothyroidism is indicated by the formation of lymph nodules in the thyroid gland.  Follicles eventually rupture and colloid enters the tissue space. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hashimoto}{\f21\fs18 's thyroiditis or }{\f21\fs18\ul chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul struma lymphomatosa}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This form of hypothyroidism occurs in infants and young children.  Often accompanied by dwarfism and overgrowth of the anterior pituitary, the retarded growth of the brain leads to its name.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cretinism}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul juvenile myxedema}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
3. Usually occurring in young males, an inflammation of the islets of Langerhans occurs with the production of auto-antibodies against the beta cells of the islets. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul insulin-dependent diabetes}{\f21\fs18  mellitus or }{\f21\fs18\ul type I diabetes}{\f21\fs18  mellitus or }{\f21\fs18\ul juvenile-onset diabetes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18 6. Answer the following questions about the abolitionist movement for the stated number of points.\par 
}\pard\plain \tx360 \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab For 5 points each, name the two abolitionist newspapers edited by William Lloyd Garrison and Frederick Douglass respectively.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Liberator}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul North-Star}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab For 10 points, this society was centered in New York City and modeled after Garrison\rquote s New England version. Prominent members included Arthur and Lewis Tappan, and James G. Birney.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul American Anti-Slavery}{\f21\fs18  Society\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab For 10 points, this abolitionist and Protestant preacher anonymously published }{\i\f21\fs18 The Bible against Slavery}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 American Slavery As It Is}{\f21\fs18 
, which influenced Harriet Beecher Stowe in her }{\i\f21\fs18 Uncle Tom\rquote s Cabin}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
}\pard\plain \s255\keepn {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: Theodore Dwight }{\f21\fs18\ul Weld\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 7. Identify the following economic terms from descriptions for 10 points apiece.\par 
1. In economics it is defined as the worth to a consumer of the last unit in a series of similar units of a good that the consumer believes is worth acquiring. Alfred Marshall first used this }{\b\f21\fs18 two-word}{\f21\fs18  term.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Marginal Utility}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. In his }{\i\f21\fs18 The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money}{\f21\fs18 , John Maynard Keynes used this }{\b\f21\fs18 two-word}{\f21\fs18 
 term to signify the total spending of consumers, business investors, and governmental bodies. He said that the explanation of persistent depression and mass unemployment should be focused on this concept.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Aggregate Demand}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. It is the payment for the use of a scarce non-reproducible resource, and it is determined exclusively by demand.  What is this }{\b\f21\fs18 two-word}{\f21\fs18  term?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Economic Rent}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 8. Answer the following questions about deep inelastic collisions for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 points) Deep inelastic scattering gave the first evidence of these particle's existence.  Murray Gell-Man first postulated them in the 1960s. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul quark}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
2. (10 points) Quarks are charged.  These experiments showed protons also have neutral substructures.  They are thought to be what massless, spin 1 strong force mediators.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul gluon}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3. (15 points) In electron-proton deep inelastic scattering, the cross section can be found using this rule due to Fermi.  It relates the cross section to the reaction amplitude and the size of available phase space. \par 
\tab Answer: Fermi's }{\f21\fs18\ul golden rule}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
9. Answer the following questions about Japanese-European contact in the 16th century for 10 points each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This missionary and co-founder of the Jesuits with St. Ignatius of Loyola landed at Kasoshima in 1547. The government responded with a decree to close Japan to foreign influences.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: Saint }{\f21\fs18\ul Francis Xavier}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab Unlike the Portuguese and English, this European nation was allowed to remain; they were given the island of Deshima as their trade center.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Holland}{\f21\fs18  or the }{\f21\fs18\ul Netherlands}{\f21\fs18  or the }{\f21\fs18\ul Dutch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab Saint Francis Xavier\rquote s arrival in Japan occurred during the rule of this shogunate, which reigned from 1338 to 1573.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashikaga}{\f21\fs18  Shogunate\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 10. Identify the poems from opening lines for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (10 points) "Bent double, like old beggars under sacks, / Knock-kneed, coughing like hags, we cursed through the sludge,"\par 
  \tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul Dulce Et Decorum Est}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
2. (15 points) "Droning a drowsy syncopated tune, / Rocking back and forth to a mellow croon,"\par 
  \tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul The Weary Blues}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
3. (5 points) "That is no country for old men.  The young / In one another\rquote s arms, birds in the trees"\par 
  \tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul Sailing to Byzantium}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 11. Name these related mathematical terms for the stated number of points.  \par 
1.  (10 points) For a binary operation, this is a set on which the operation is associative, a two-sided identity exists, and the inverse of every set element is also a set member.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul group}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (5 points) This term, named for a Norwegian mathematician, describes commutative groups. \par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul abelian}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on }{\f21\fs18\ul Abel}{\f21\fs18 )  \par 
3. (15 points) For two binary operations, this is a set on which the first of the operations forms an abelian group, and the second is associative and distributive. \par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ring}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 12. Given a trio from a world mythology, identify any two of the three for 5 points, or all three for 10 points.\par 
1.the Norns\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Urd}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Skuld}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Verdandi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.the Graeae\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Enyo}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Deino}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Pemphredo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.the Harpies\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Aello}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Celaeno}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Ocypete\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 13. Identify the authors of the following short stories for 5 points each and 30 for all.\par 
1. "The Open Boat"\par 
\tab Answer: Stephen }{\f21\fs18\ul Crane}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"\par 
\tab Answer: Raymond }{\f21\fs18\ul Carver}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. "Dante and the Lobster"\par 
\tab  Answer: Samuel }{\f21\fs18\ul Beckett}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. "The Necklace"\par 
\tab Answer: Guy de }{\f21\fs18\ul Maupassant}{\f21\fs18  (mo pas sah)\par 
5. "Odour of Chrysanthemums"\par 
\tab Answer: D.H. }{\f21\fs18\ul Lawrence}{\f21\fs18 \par 
     \par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 14. Identify the cities from descriptions for 15 points each or 5 points if you need a description of its namesake treaty.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab (15 points) It is the capital of the Limburg province in southeastern Netherlands, and it was also the first Dutch town to be liberated from the Germans in World War II.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) It was the site of the 1991 treaty that created the European Union\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Maastricht}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab (15 points) It is a county in the southwestern Republic of Ireland, bounded on the north by the Shannon River. It is also the name of the county capital.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 (5 points) It was the site of the 1691 treaty that ended an Irish Rebellion and promised religious freedom for Irish Catholics. It is also a poetic form that uses five anapestic lines with rhyme scheme a-a-b-b-a.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Limerick}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. Identify the following terms from basic circuit theory for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 points) A simple form is two nearly-touching parallel metal plates. This device stores electric energy. \par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul capacitor}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (5 points) This circuit element stores magentic energy.  A simple example is a solenoid. \par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul inductor}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) It has both capacitive and inductive forms and measures the opposition of a circuit to current flow. It is analogous to resistance except it only applies to alternating currents.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul reactance \par 
}{\f21\fs18 4. (10 points) Including both resistance and reactance, it is the total measure of a ciruit's opposition to current flow.\par 
  \tab Answer: electrical }{\f21\fs18\ul impedance}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 16. Identify the artists from some of their better-known paintings for 10 points each.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Charles I in Hunting Dress}{\f21\fs18  & }{\i\f21\fs18 Carrying of the Cross}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Sir Anthony van }{\f21\fs18\ul Dyck}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Cathedral}{\f21\fs18  & }{\i\f21\fs18 Autumn Rhythm}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Jackson }{\f21\fs18\ul Pollock}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Three Studies for Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion}{\f21\fs18  & }{\i\f21\fs18 Pope I}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Francis }{\f21\fs18\ul Bacon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 17. Answer the following related climatology questions for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This phenomenon is the anomalous appearance of warm ocean water along South America's tropical western coast.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul El Nino}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) Concurrent with El Nino's oceanic effect is an interannual change in atmospheric pressure over the tropical Indo-Pacific. Name it.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Southern Oscillation}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (5 points) The Southern Oscillation was discovered while investigating this weather pattern.  A wind system that changes direction with the seasons, it's most prominent in Africa and south Asia.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul monsoon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. (10 points) When El Nino occurs, it displaces this cool northward-flowing current which skirts the western coast of South America. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Peru}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Humboldt}{\f21\fs18  current\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 18. Answer the following questions about an American author for the stated number of points\par 
1. For 10 points, this novel return's to the life of Temple Drake. It tells of her marriage, her blackmail by Pete, and the death of her youngest child at the hands of her servant, Nancy Manningoe\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Requiem for a Nun}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. For 5 points, who wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 Requiem for a Nun}{\f21\fs18 , as well as its prequel, }{\i\f21\fs18 Sanctuary}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: William }{\f21\fs18\ul Faulkner}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. For 15 points, this Faulkner character is a lawyer in Jefferson, Mississippi. He falls in love with Eula Varner Snopes in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Town}{\f21\fs18  and her daughter Linda in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Mansion}{\f21\fs18 
. He eventually marries Melisandre Backus Harris, a wealthy widow.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gavin}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Stevens}{\f21\fs18  (accept either first or last name) \par 
  \par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 19. Identify these 19th century American political parties or factions with unusual names for 10 points each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This faction of Jacksonian Democrats in the 1830s got their name from the candles they lit to remedy the darkness created when their opponents turned of the gas.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Locofoco}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This organization, that emerged as a party in 1852, took its name from the vow members took to respond a certain way when asked about the group.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Know-Nothing}{\f21\fs18  Party\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab In 1830 it became the nation\rquote s first third party. It ran William Wirt against National Republican Henry Clay and Democrat Andrew Jackson in 1832.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18   \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Anti-Mason}{\f21\fs18 ic Party\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 20. Identify the following literary works with a similar theme for 15 points each.\par 
1. This loose collection of twenty-four dramatic scenes by Bertolt Brecht is an open attack on the terror and suffering inflicted by Hitler's regime between 1933 and 1938.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Private Life of the Master Race}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Fear and Misery of the Third Reich}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Narrated in first person by the hunchback Oskar Mazerath, it consists of his recollections of the events in his hometown of Danzig, before, during, and after the Third Reich.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Tin Drum}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 It's time for chemistry a la ACF.  For ten points each, identify the\par 
following chemistry terms which begin with the letters "A", "C", or "F".\par 
1. Equal to 96,487 coulombs, it is the charge on a mole of electrons.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Faraday}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. They are the properties of a solution that depend primarily on the concentration, not the type, of particles present. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul colligative}{\f21\fs18  properties\par 
3. It is a radical obtained from a ring hydrocarbon by removing one hydrogen atom from the ring. \par 
}\pard\plain \s2 \f2005\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul aryl}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
Answer the following questions about an author for the stated number of points.\par 
1. For 10 points, This Enlgishman's works include Tunc, Nunquam, and Prospero's Letter. His most famous work might have been inspired by his time in Egypt during World War II, when he worked as a press attache.\par 
\tab Answer: Lawrence George }{\f21\fs18\ul Durrell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. For 5 points, Identify Durrell's most famous work, a novel in four parts.\par 
  \tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Alexandria Quartet}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. For 5 points each, name any three of the four novels in the quartet.\par 
}\pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Justine}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\f21\fs18\ul Balthazar}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\f21\fs18\ul Mountolive}{\f21\fs18 ; }{\f21\fs18\ul Clea}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Identify the following related things from molecular biology for ten points each.  \par 
1. This protein of 4 peptide chains and 4 iron-containing groups was one of the first two for which the internal structure was resolved.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul hemoglobin}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. Max Perutz found hemoglobin's structure using this technique where high energy photons incident on a protein crystal produce a characteristic interference pattern.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul X-ray diffraction}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul X-ray crystallography}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. Working with Perutz, John Kendrew discovered the structure of this protein which closely resembles one of hemoglobin's peptide chains and stores oxygen in muscles.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul myoglobin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}