{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Nationals}{\author Brian Rostron}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by John Patrick Sheahan, X}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

1. Samuel was a union admiral in the American civil war and the namesake of a neighborhood in Washington, D.C.  Pierre Samuel was an economist credited with coining the word "physiocrat," and Pete was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican presidenti
al nomination in 1988.  Eleuthere was a stu
dent of Lavoisier who emigrated to the United Stated in 1804, where he built the gunpowder mill that would become the source of the family's fortune.  For 10 points identify this family, whose namesake company has long dominated business and politics in th
e state of Delaware.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Du Pont}{\f21\fs18  (de Nemours)\par 
\par 
2. The title character is the Duke of Vienna, who is murdered when his treacherous nephew Lucianus pours poison into his ears.  Afterwards, Lucianus seduces and marries the title character's widow, Baptis
ta, but we only see this part of the drama in its dumb-show rehearsal, since the royal command performance is abruptly halted during the murder scene.  For 10 points name this Shakespearean play-within-a-play, which Hamlet uses to test the guilt of his unc
le Claudius.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Murder of Gonzago}{\f21\fs18  (grudgingly accept }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Mouse-Trap}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
3. In 1934 he obtained a patent for the nuclear chain reaction, which he immediately assigned to the British Admiralty.   The namesake of a petition that attempted to block the
 use of the atomic bomb against Japan, he later became so disillusioned with his work that he dropped out of physics altogether, and spent the last decades of his life as a biologist.   For 10 points name this influential Manhattan Project physicist, who i
s perhaps best known as the real author of Einstein's letter to FDR urging research into nuclear weapons.\par 
\tab Answer: Leo }{\f21\fs18\ul Szilard}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Its debut issue consisted of a long article by Max Beerbohm entitled "In Defense of Cosmetics."  During its brief run, it pub
lished fiction from many of the leading literary figures of the day, including Arnold Bennett and Henry James, but it attracted far more attention for its daring illustrations, particularly those by its 22-year-old art editor, Aubrey Beardsley.  For 10 poi
nts name this illustrated magazine published from 1894 to 1897, which helped launch the Art Noveau movement.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Yellow Book}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. The Permanent Central Opium Board, the Commission of Enquiry for European Union, and the Nansen International Office f
or Refugees were among the approximately 20 major agencies it created.  Governed by an Assembly that had no legislative power and a Council that could only act on a unanimous vote, it proved utterly unable to enforce the Sixteenth Article of its charter, w
hich provided for joint military action in the event of aggression against one of its members.  For 10 points name this subject of Woodrow Wilson's fourteenth Point.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul League of Nations}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. A contemporary of Belinsky, Chaadayev, and Herzen, this
 Russian thinker first attracted attention with his dissertation on the history of the German city of Hanau in the 15th-century, which was regarded as a veiled attack on the Slavophiles.  His next work, a long poetic allegory on Faust, was suppressed by th
e government, and fearing for his safety, he fled to the estate of a wealthy neighbor, where he became tutor to the psychopathic Nikolai Stavrogin.  For 10 points  name this intellectual charlatan, a major character of Dostoyevsky's }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Possessed}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul S}{\f21\fs18 tefan Trofimovich }{\f21\fs18\ul Verkhovensky}{\f21\fs18  [note: first name prompt is necessary because his son, Pyotr, is one of the other major characters of the book]\par 
\par 

7. In a zero-sum game, a rational player will hedge his bets by choosing a strategy that gives his opponent the worst best-possible outcome.  The other player, knowing that the first player is acting rationally, will expect him to play the strategy just de
scribed and so will choose the one responding strategy that gives him the best outcome under that scenario.  A
s a result, every finite, two-person, zero-sum game has a single outcome that can be predicted with certainty if both players are rational.  For 10 points  identify this fundamental theorem of game theory, developed by John von Newmann.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Minimax}{\f21\fs18  Theorem\par 
\par 
8. Because of intense pressure from the Soviet government, which tried to block its screening altogether, its premiere was held at 4:00 in the morning on the last day of the 1969 Cannes Festival.  However, the few critics who were awake to see i
t liked it enough that it was awarded the festival's Fipreschi Prize, although it would not be seen in the U.S.S.R. for another five years, owing to its overtly religious theme.  For 10 points name this masterpiece of Soviet director Andrei Tarkovsky, a fi
ctionalized biography of medieval Russia's greatest icon painter.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Andrei}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Rublev}{\f21\fs18  (roob-LOFE) (accept }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Strasti po Andreyu}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Gospel According to Andrei}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
9. He won his first campaign for public office after rounding up his opponent's supporters t
he night before the election and putting them on a ship bound for Norway.  A leader of London's notorious Hellfire Club and the reputed author of a pornographic parody of Pope's }{\i\f21\fs18 Essay on Man}{\f21\fs18 
, he prompted Dr. Johnson's famous remark that he would rather dine with Jack Ketch, the public hangman, than with him.  For 10 points, name this champion of civil liberties in 18th-century England, who is also the namesake of a U.S. presidential assassin.
\par 
\tab Answer: John }{\f21\fs18\ul Wilkes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. It's preceded by a ball of epithelial c
ells from which, in humans, cells migrate along the primitive streak to produce the archenteron, or primitive gut cavity.  When formed it has differentiated into three layers of geminal cells which later develop into organs.  With a typical cup-like shape,
 for ten points, what embryonic form follows the blastula and is named for the development of the digestive system. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul gastrula}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul gastrulation}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
11. He had ten heads and twenty arms, and because of a gift he had once received, he could not be 
harmed by gods or most living creatures.  However, because of his arrogance, he had forgotten to ask for immunity from humans or monkeys, and he was ultimately destroyed by an army jointly led by the monkey-king Sugriva and one of the avatars of Vishnu.  F
or 10 points--name this demon, the king of the Rakshasas and the villain of the }{\i\f21\fs18 Ramayana}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ravana}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. In its final scene, Teucer decides that for the sake of the common good, he will not seek revenge for his brother's death, even though the code o
f honor gave him both the right and the obligation to do so.   Although Odysseus emerges as the peacemaker, this drama is notable for its harshly negative portrayal of other mythological figures, including Agamemnon, Menelaus, and even Athena.  For 10 poin
ts identify this Sophocles tragedy, which deals with the madness and suicide of a Trojan War hero.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Aias}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ajax}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. Corneilus Cossus in 428 B.C. and Claudius Marcellus in 222 B.C. were the only two men ever to win them--although Roman tradition a
dds Romulus to the list for his legendary victory over the King of Caenina.  The younger Crassus probably should have won them as well, but Augustus vetoed the award, fearing a potential rival, and it was thereafter abolished.  For 10 points give this high
est and rarest military honor in ancient Rome, which could be awarded only to a Roman commander who killed the enemy commander in single combat.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Spolia opima}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Spoils}{\f21\fs18  of }{\f21\fs18\ul Victory}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. Charles I was imprisoned in this town while awaiting execution,
 and Earl Godwin (the father of King Harold) may have been poisoned while attending a banquet here.  Appropriately, its landmarks include the royal mausoleum, as well as a notable Town Hall designed by Christopher Wren.  Located on the Thames River about 2
0 miles west of London, its castle has been a royal residence since the time of William the Conqueror.  For 10 points name this English city, closely associated with a play by Shakespeare and, since 1917, with the former House of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Windsor}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Windsor Castle}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

15. Developed in 1970 by Alain Colmerauer of the University of Marseille, it operates from a pre-programmed domain, or set of facts, that is typically oriented toward a single scientific or technical field.  By applying the formal rules of symbolic logic, 
a computer using this language can "learn" additional facts beyond its original data set and test for inconsistencies, but it has difficulty in areas that require fuzzy logic or uncertainty.  For 10 points identify this a
rtificial intelligence programming language, an early rival to LISP.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul PROLOG}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

16. The son of a noted astronomer and mathematician, he spent thirty years as an employee of the U.S. Coastal and Geodesic Survey, occasionally moonlighting as a lecturer of logic and the history of science at Harvard.  Though he retired in 1891 to devote 
himself full-time to writing, he never managed to complete a single book, and his ideas are consequently best-known through his posthumously published }{\i\f21\fs18 Collected Papers}{\f21\fs18 . F
or 10 points--identify this author of "How to make our ideas clear," who coined the term [NOTE TO MODERATOR: Be careful not to read this as "pragmatism"] "pragmaticism" in an effort to distinguish his system from that of his colleague, William James.
\par 
\tab Answer: Charles Sanders }{\f21\fs18\ul Peirce}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. It is the fifth-closest star, after the sun and the three stars of the Alpha Centauri system.  A red dwarf in the constellation Ophiuchus, it's so faint it wasn't discovered until 1916.  It is sometimes called the "runaway s
tar"  due to its large tangential velocity which moves it a moon width in 180 years. For 10 points, what star, named for an American astronomer, has the greatest known proper motion\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Barnard}{\f21\fs18 's star\par 
\par 
18. Amos Durfee, a New York sailor, was the only man killed during this event, but tensions remained high for nearly two years afterwards, culminating in the retaliatory burning of the steamship }{\i\f21\fs18 Sir Robert Peel}{\f21\fs18 
 on the St. Lawrence River.  In spite of the propaganda efforts of William Lyon MacKenzie, howe
ver, it did not lead to war between the U.S. and Great Britain.  For 10 points name this international incident of 1837, named for an American ship attacked and burned on the Niagara River by Canadian militiamen.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Caroline}{\f21\fs18  Affair\par 
\par 

19. The title locations are Redding Center, Connecticut; Stockbridge, Massachusetts; and Boston.  Its final section is a setting of a poem by Robert Underwood Johnson about the Housatonic River, while its opening section is an impression of Augustus Saint-
Gaudens' memo
rial to the 54th Massachusetts Regiment in Boston Common.  Its middle section, arguably the most famous, describes a child who falls asleep at a picnic and dreams that he is a member of General Israel Putnam's revolutionary war army.  For 10 points identif
y this orchestral suite by Charles Ives.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Three Places in New England}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul First}{\i\f21\fs18  Orchestral Suite}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20. It ends with a monologue in which the Student announces that appearances can mask evil, along with a warning to the audience that they cannot escap
e their sins.  Characters inlcude Hummel, a vampire; the Colonel, his enemy; a Mummy, the Colonel's wife, and an unnamed girl who lives on hyacinths.  For 10 points--name this expressionist one-act drama by August Strindberg.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ghost Sonata}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Spoksonaten}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T1. He fled to France in order to escape his creditors in 1816, not long after his penchant for clever insults lost him his royal patronage.  He later pulled his life together long enough to become British Consul in Caen, only to return to debt
ors' prison shortly afterwards, and he eventually died in a French insane asylum.  For 10 points name this onetime fashion icon and sidekick of the future George IV, the unofficial "arbiter elegantiarum" of the British Regency.\par 
\tab Answer: George Bryan "Beau" }{\f21\fs18\ul Brummell}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T2. In 1520, a monk named Matteo di Bassi had a frightening vision in which Jesus Christ informed him that habit worn by the monks of his order was not at all like the one that St. Francis had worn.  As a result, Matteo became a hermit, gave up 
shaving, and lived in extreme austerity; more significantly, he also started to wear tall pointed hats.  For 10 points so began what offshoot of the Franciscians, whose name derives from Matteo's favored headgear, which is perhaps most famous for its contr
ibutions to the field of coffee?\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Capuchin}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
T3. By the novel's end, he is a Lieutenant General in charge of Special Services, and by extension, commander of all Army Air Force combat operations.  Having risen to power as the unintended benefic
iary of General Peckem's behind-the-scenes machinations, his first action as commander is to order yet another parade.  For 10 points identify this scatologically-named officer, who presides over Yossarian's basic training in }{\i\f21\fs18 Catch-22}{
\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Lieutenant }{\f21\fs18\ul Scheisskopf}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by John Sheahan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. "Say I'm weary, say I'm sad./ Say that health and wealth have missed me./ Say I'm growing old, but add . . .\par 
1. For 10 points, complete this line and you will give the title of the poem.\par 
\tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul Jenny Kissed Me}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
2. For 5 points, name the poet and critic of the Cockney School who recorded this incident of spontaneous affection in "Jenny Kissed Me."\par 
\tab Answer: Leigh }{\f21\fs18\ul Hunt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. For 15 points, the Jenny of the poem's title was the wife of what well-known writer?\par 
\tab Answer: Thomas }{\f21\fs18\ul Carlyle}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. It's time for another exciting round of Bombardment--of Bible questions!  For ten points each, identify these people who would fall near the end of an alphabetical listing of Biblical characters.\par 
1. This Galilean fisherman was the father of the apostles John and James.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Zebedee}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Along with Eliphaz and Bildad, this Nahaamite was one of the "miserable comforters" of Job.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Zophar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. This daughter of Jethro the Midianite was the wife of Moses.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Zipporah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3. The Michelson-Morley experiment was designed to measure it, but instead ended up disproving its existence.  For the stated number of points:  \par 
1. (5 points) Name this fixed, invisible, non-material substance, through which nineteenth- century physicists believed the earth traveled. \par 
\tab Answer:  luminiferous }{\f21\fs18\ul ether}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul ether wind}{\f21\fs18 \par 

2. (10 points) In an effort to explain the Michelson-Morley results, an Irish physicist suggested that ether wind causes objects to shrink in the direction of motion.  This effect was put into mathematical form by a Dutch physicist and arises, for a differ
ent reason, in special relativity.  Name the two scientists, five points each.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul FitzGerald}{\f21\fs18 -}{\f21\fs18\ul Lorentz}{\f21\fs18  contraction (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Lorentz}{\f21\fs18 -}{\f21\fs18\ul FitzGerald}{\f21\fs18 ) \par 
3. (15 points) The FitzGerald-Lorentz ether contraction theory was definitively disproved by what 1932 experiment, named for two American physicists?\par 
\tab Answer:   }{\f21\fs18\ul Kennedy-Thorndike}{\f21\fs18  experiment\par 
\par 
4. Virginia is the Mother of Presidents.  For the stated number of points--\par 
1. For ten points, what state which has sent eleven of its favorite sons to the nation's second-highest office can claim to be the Mother of Vice-Presidents?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul New York}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Four of New York's vice presidents went on to the presidency: Martin Van Buren, Millard Fillmore, Chester A. Arthur, and Theodore Roosevelt.  For five points each and a maximum of 20, name any four of the remaining seven.\par 
\tab Answer: Aaron }{\f21\fs18\ul Burr}{\f21\fs18 , George }{\f21\fs18\ul Clinton}{\f21\fs18 , Daniel }{\f21\fs18\ul Tompkins}{\f21\fs18 , William }{\f21\fs18\ul Wheeler}{\f21\fs18 , Levi }{\f21\fs18\ul Morton}{\f21\fs18 , James }{\f21\fs18\ul Sherman}{
\f21\fs18 , Nelson }{\f21\fs18\ul Rockefeller}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. A law-abiding 16th-century merchant becomes a bloodthirsty brigand after a nobleman seizes two of his prize horses.  For 10 points each part--\par 
1. This is the plot of what 1810 novella by Heinrich von Kleist?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Michael Kohlhaas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. E.L. Doctorow lifted the plot of Michael Kohlhaas for his story of Coalhouse Walker, a black man who fights back after his new car is damaged by white vandals.  In what Doctorow novel does the Coalhouse Walker episode appear?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ragtime}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. In }{\i\f21\fs18 Michael Kohlhaas}{\f21\fs18 , the title character is persuaded to give himself up to justice after a visit from Martin Luther.  What historical figure takes the place of Luther in Doctorow's }{\i\f21\fs18 Ragtime}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul B}{\f21\fs18 ooker T. }{\f21\fs18\ul Washington}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. For the stated number of points apiece, identify these architectural landmarks of Manhattan.\par 
1. 5 points: Designed by William Van Alen and completed in 1930, it was the world's tallest building for less than a year, before being surpassed by the Empire State Building.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chrysler}{\f21\fs18  Building\par 
2. 10 points: Another skyscraper that was the world's tallest when completed in 1913, legend has it that its namesake ordered it built as an act of revenge against Met Life, which had once denied him a loan and which owned the previous record-holder.
\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Woolworth}{\f21\fs18  Building\par 
3. 10 points:: Begun in 1892 and still under construction, it is the largest Gothic church in the world.\par 
\tab Answer: Cathedral of }{\f21\fs18\ul St. John the Divine}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. 5 points: It sits at the end of a narrow triangular block formed by the intersection of 5th Avenue and Broadway; its name derives from its resulting shape.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Flatiron}{\f21\fs18  Building\par 
\par 
7. For 10 points apiece, answer the following about slimy fork-tongued creatures, none of which are named Richard Reid.\par 
1. Divded into sub-orders Sauria and Serpentes, it is the largest order in the Linnaean classification of reptiles.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Squamata}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. By far the smallest Linnaean reptilian order is Rhynchocephalia, whose lone species is what nocturnal animal native to New Zealand?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tuatara}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Order Crocodilia consists of crocodiles, alligators, and what related species, which is found only in India?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gavial}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul gharial}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul gavialidae}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. Contained in Article I, S
ection 2, it has been used as the primary justification for the expansion of federal regulatory power in the 20th century, while its "dormant" version has been used to strike down discriminatory regulatory legislation by states.  For the stated number of p
oints--\par 
1. 5 pts: Name this clause of the Constitution, the main subject of the Supreme Court's decision in }{\i\f21\fs18 Gibbons v. Ogden}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Commerce}{\f21\fs18  Clause\par 
2. 10 pts: In 1994, for the first time since the New Deal, the Supreme Court struck down a bill on th
e grounds that it exceeded Congress' commerce clause power.  Name this case, which invalidated a criminal prosecution brought under the Gun-Free Schools Act.\par 
\tab Answer: United States v. }{\f21\fs18\ul Lopez}{\f21\fs18 \par 

3. 15 pts: The Court's post-Lopez interpretation of the Commerce Clause is likely to get its first real test when the Court considers a 1993 law that has been declared unconstitutional by a federal appeals court in Virginia, but upheld by an appeals court 
in New York.  Name this law, the subject of the pending case Brzonkala [bron-kala] v. VPI, which purports to make domestic violence a federal crime.\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Violence Against Women Act}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul VAWA}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

9. The ancients considered him Greece's fourth-best tragedian, after Euripides, Sophocles, and Aeschylus.  Modern scholars have to take the ancients' word for this, however, since his works have been lost for nearly two thousand years.  For 10 points apiec
e--\par 
1. Name this Athenian playwright, notable as the first writer to produce exclusively non-mythological tragedies, whose name comes from the Greek for "good."\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Agathon}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Agatho}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Agathon is the host at the dinner party in what Platonic dialogue, whose other real-life characters include Alcibiades and Aristophanes?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Symposium}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Agathon is also a character in what Aristophanes comedy, which deals with a feminist plot to assassinate Euripides?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Thesmophoriazusai}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Women of the Thesmophoria}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
10. Pencil and paper may be helpful.  Take a beaker of aqueous iron (III)  chloride, FeCl3.  Add to it hydrogen sulfide, H2S.  For the stated number of points, answer the following.\par 
1. (10 points) All or nothing, what three substances will this reaction produce (in addition to those that you started with)?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Iron (II) chloride}{\f21\fs18  (FeCl2) [prompt on iron chloride], }{\f21\fs18\ul sulfur}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul hydrochloric acid}{\f21\fs18  (HCl)\par 
2. Now, for 20 points, balance the resulting redox equation.  If you want the answer to the previous part given to you, this part is worth only 10 points.  Choose now. You have one minute. \par 
\tab [Note to moderator: If they ask, give them the answer to part 1] \par 
\tab Answer: [parentheses indicate subscript numbers] }{\f21\fs18\ul 2FeCl(3) + H(2)S -> 2FeCl(2) + S + 2HCl}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
11. The chief deputy of Heinrich Himmler, he was the architect of the concentration camp system, while he earned his nickname of "the hangman" for his brutal suppression of resistance groups in Norway and the Netherlands.  For 15 points apiece--\par 
1. Name this Nazi leader, who was assassinated by Czech partisans in 1942.\par 
\tab Answer: Reinhard }{\f21\fs18\ul Heydrich}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. In retaliation for Heydrich's assassination, the SS selected a Czech town at random and executed every one of its inhabitants.  Name this village, the site of one of Nazi Germany's worst wartime atrocities.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lidice}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. Sergei Rachmaninoff was neither the first nor the last composer to make use of Paganini's }{\i\f21\fs18 Caprice in A Minor}{\f21\fs18 . For 10 points each, identify the composers who used this melody in:\par 
1. The }{\i\f21\fs18 Paganini Studies}{\f21\fs18 , the first known variations of this theme by a major composer.\par 
\tab Answer: Franz }{\f21\fs18\ul Liszt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Variations on a Theme by Paganini}{\f21\fs18  numbers one and two, each containing 14 variations on the }{\i\f21\fs18 Caprice}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Johann }{\f21\fs18\ul Brahms}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Paganini Variations}{\f21\fs18 , written in 1941 for two pianos.\par 
\tab Answer: Witold }{\f21\fs18\ul Lutoslawski}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. For 10 points apiece--given a list of connected novels, name the series of which they form a part.  If you need the name of the author, you will receive 5 points.\par 
1. 10 pts: }{\i\f21\fs18 Spring Snow}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Runaway Horses}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Decay of the Angel}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Temple of Dawn}{\f21\fs18  5 pts: Yukio Mishima\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Sea of Fertility}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hojo no umi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. 10 pts: }{\i\f21\fs18 Casanova's Chinese Restaurant}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Temporary Kings}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 A Question of Upbringing}{\f21\fs18  \par 
5 pts: Anthony Powell\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Dance to the Music of Time}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. 10 pts: }{\i\f21\fs18 Savage Paris}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Ladies' Delight}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Doctor Pascal}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Nana}{\f21\fs18  \par 
5 pts: Emile Zola\par 
\tab Answer: The }{\f21\fs18\ul Rougon-Macquart}{\f21\fs18  cycle\par 
\par 
14. The eldest son of Frederick III, his reign is most notable for a series of marriage alliances that would make the Hapsburgs the dominant dynasty of Europe.  For 10 points each part--\par 
1. Name this Holy Roman Emperor, whose empire-building was continued by his grandson and successor, Charles V.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Maximilian}{\f21\fs18  I\par 
2. In 1477, Maximilian married Mary, the only surviving child of Charles the Bold and heiress of what powerful European state?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Burgundy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Spain became part of the Hapsburg empire in 1496, when Maximilian married his son Philip off to what insane daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Joanna}{\f21\fs18  I\par 
\par 
15. For 10 points apiece, answer these questions about the now-five-figured Dow Jones Industrial Average.\par 
1. What is the only company whose stock price has been included in the Dow for all 114 years of the index's existence?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul G}{\f21\fs18 eneral }{\f21\fs18\ul E}{\f21\fs18 lectric\par 
2. On the eve of the Great Crash of 1929, the Dow peaked at 298.97.  Within five years, when did the Dow next reach that level?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1949}{\f21\fs18  (accept 1944 to 1954)\par 
3. The current bull market dates back to "Black Monday," the stock market crash of October 19, 1987.  Within fifty percent, what was the Dow at the close of trading that day?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1738}{\f21\fs18  (accept 869 to 2607)\par 
\par 
16. For 10 points each, given a well-known work of art, identify the medium in which it was executed.  For example, if we give you Whistler's }{\i\f21\fs18 Arrangement in Grey and Black Number 1}{\f21\fs18 , you would reply, "Oil on canvas."\par 
1. Edward Munch's }{\i\f21\fs18 The Scream}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lithograph}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Da Vinci's }{\i\f21\fs18 Mona Lisa}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Oil}{\f21\fs18  on }{\f21\fs18\ul wood}{\f21\fs18  (accept oil on panel; prompt if only oil is answered)\par 
3. Botticelli's }{\i\f21\fs18 The Birth of Venus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tempera}{\f21\fs18  on }{\f21\fs18\ul canvas}{\f21\fs18  (prompt if only tempera answered)\par 
\par 
17. For 10 points apiece, identify these concepts named partially after Albert Einstein. \par 
1.  In this cosmic model, ordinary Euclidean geometry holds, the universe expands indefinitely and its density is inversely proportional to the square of its age.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Einstein-de Sitter}{\f21\fs18  model \par 
2.  These are the gravitational waves produced by an oscillating ponderable matter along an infinitely long cylindrical axis.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Einstein-Rosen}{\f21\fs18  waves \par 
3. It shows that standard quantum mechanics seems to require instantaneous information travel by, in one version, considering two entangled protons. Name the acronymic name of this paradox is known for 5, or the full name for 10. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen}{\f21\fs18  paradox (}{\f21\fs18\ul EPR}{\f21\fs18  for 5)\par 
\par 
18. For five points apiece, and a five-point bonus for all five, identify the authors of these books which are currently gathering dust on John's shelf.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 New Grub Street}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Gissing}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Moviegoer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Walker }{\f21\fs18\ul Percy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Paul Clifford}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Edward }{\f21\fs18\ul Bulwer}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Lytton}{\f21\fs18  (accept either surname)\par 
4. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Family Golovlyov}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Mikahil }{\f21\fs18\ul Saltykov-Shchedrin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5. }{\i\f21\fs18 Independent People}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer: Halldor }{\f21\fs18\ul Laxness}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. For the stated number of points apiece, identify these places which were slow to abolish slavery.\par 
1. When the 13th Amendment was ratified in December, 1865, slavery was still legal in only two U.S. states.  For 5 points each, name them.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Delaware}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Kentucky}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. What country was the last in the Western Hemisphere to free its slaves, not doing so until 1888?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Brazil}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Which was the last state north of  the Mason-Dixon line to abolish slavery, not doing so until 1804?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul New Jersey}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20. Identify the country, 30-20-10.\par 
1. Its second- and third-largest cities are named London and Paris.  They sit opposite one another at the extremities of the largest atoll in the world.\par 
2. That atoll is Kiritimati [kiri-ti-MAS], formerly known as Christmas Island.\par 
3. Independent since 1979, this nation's name is a Micronesian corruption of its colonial name, the Gilbert Islands.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kiribati}{\f21\fs18  [ki-ri-BAS]\par 
\par 
Six parameters are necessary and sufficient to describe the orbit of any planet in its orbit. Name these 3 frequently used by astronomers on a 10-5 basis. \par 
1. (10) If it is greater than 90 degrees, the orbit is called retrograde. \par 
(5) Earth's is defined as 0 degrees.  Pluto's is 17 degrees.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul inclination}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10) One of two elements replaced by perihelion distance in the degenerate case of parabolic orbits, for planets it is always betwween 0 and 1. \par 
(5) For an ellipse, it's the ratio of the focal length to the\par 
semimajor axis. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul eccentricity}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10) Two thousand years ago, Earth's was the same as the longitude of the vernal equinox, 0 degrees. Slightly different now, it's the longitude minus the argument of the perihelion.\par 
(5) It is the longitude of the place where a planet passes through the ecliptic, moving from south to north.\par 
\tab Answer: longitude of the }{\f21\fs18\ul ascending node}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}