{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\fs20 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text;}}{\info{\title  Mayer studied for the rabbinate for a time in Frankfurt}{\author Brian Rostron}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere 
\pard\plain \s1 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by UT-Austin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. He was overthrown in 1966 by an army coup while on an official visit to the People\rquote s Republic of China.  In the 1930s, he studied at Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and later received a master's degree from Penn.  In 1947 he published }{
\i\f21\fs18 Towards Colonial Freedom}{\f21\fs18 , and in 1957 when the British Togoland Trust and Gold Coast became independent, he became the first prime minister of Ghana.  FTP name this African leader who died in Bucharest in 1972.\par 
\tab Answer:  Kwame }{\f21\fs18\ul Nkrumah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

2. An example from the C++ language is defining the "less than less than" operator on an output stream to represent a data transfer --- not to represent a bitwise shift, as is the case when the operator is used with integers. For ten points, identify this 
practice of redefining standard operators to act on newly defined data types. \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul operator overload}{\f21\fs18 ing\par 
\par 

3. Although the title character's house still can be seen, historians are unsure of whether the 1862 incident that this poem describes ever actually took place.   The heroine is a ninety-year old woman, whose fearless defense of the Stars and Stripes in Fr
ederick, Maryland manages to impress even the invading General Stonewall Jackson.  FTP, give the title of this poem, written by John Greenleaf Whittier. \par 
\tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul Barbara Frietchie}{\f21\fs18 " \par 
  \par 
4.
 In 406, they crossed the Rhine and ravaged Gaul, before settling in Spain in 409.  There, the Asdingi group under Gunderic became the ascendant faction after the Romans dissipated the Silingi and Alani.  In 439 Gaiseric established an independent autocrac
y in North Africa, and from there he led this people to sack Rome in 455.  FTP these barbarians and militant Arian Christians.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Vandals\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
5. Its northernmost island is Petit St. Vincent.  Its southernmost is Glover Island.  Neither they nor the oth
ers in between were ever searched for UFO landing sites, despite a resolution put to the floor of the UN by the nation's longtime prime minister.  However, it's no strangerto landings of other kinds, and usually not to control the vast resources of nutmeg 
found here.  FTP, name this island, whose largest airport is Point Salines, a new runway of which was financed by the US--after General Norman Schwartzkopf helped overthrow the government that invited the Cubans to build it in 1982.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Grenada}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. P
ioneered in the 1930s by Walter Freeman and James Watts, the "precision method", used an instrument called a Killian periosteal elevator.  A related version invented by Egas Moniz destroyed white matter while the trans-orbital or "icepick" method was less 
discriminating.  For ten points, name this operation which according to a Dr. Rock song is not to be preferred over a "bottle in front of me". \par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul frontal lobotomy}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul prefrontal lobotomy}{\f21\fs18  before the final clue)\par 
\par 
7. Mayer studied for the rabbinat
e for a time in Frankfurt.  Nathan settled in London in 1804, at the height of the Napoleonic wars.  Alphonse made the two liberation loans that supported the French government in 1871 and 1872.  Lionel, who had become the first Jewish member of Parliament
 in 1858, lent Disraeli the money to buy up Suez stock in 1875.  All of these people were members of what, FTP, great European banking family?\par 
\tab Answer:  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Rothschild}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
8. A powerful oxidizer, it deodorizes water and kills germs at concentrations of 1 par
t per million.  At even lower concentrations in air it causes coughing, chest pain, and eye irritation. Experiments show its molecular structure exhibits resonance, as the oxygen-oxygen bonds are both identical. For ten points, identify this poisonous blue
 gas, whose molecules each contain three atoms. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ozone}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
9. Along with Winston Churchill and John Simon, he was the one of three people to sit in the British Cabinet during both World War I and II.  After making a fortune by amalgamating the entire
 cement industry in Canada, he moved to Britain, became active in politics, and acquired the }{\i\f21\fs18 Daily Express}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Evening Standard}{\f21\fs18 
.  In these mass-market papers, he championed free trade and the British empire.  FTP name this press baron and politician.\par 
\tab Answer:  Lord }{\f21\fs18\ul Beaverbrook}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. Bacteria have circular genomes and don't need them.  Identified in the 1970s, these structures are multiple copies of short DNA sequences. Found on chromosome ends, they become shorter due to chemical instability and replication 
errors as cells divide.  For ten points, name these cellular structures which hold important clues for research into cancer and aging.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul telomeres}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept }{\f21\fs18\ul telomerase}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

11. Ezra Pound said of this author that he was like ten brilliant minds inhabiting  one body.  He wrote a cycle of five experimental lipogram novels, each of  which avoided the use of one of the vowels, but he is better known for his  plays, which include 
}{\i\f21\fs18 All Citizens are Soldiers}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Knight from Olmedo}{\f21\fs18 ,  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Fuente Ovejuna}{\f21\fs18 . Fo
r 10 points-- name this playwright of Spain's golden  age, whose 1,800 plays are thought to make him the most prolific writer of all  time. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lope}{\f21\fs18  de Vega (Carpio) \par 
 \par 

12. Poseidon laments the destruction of the wall that he and Apollo fashioned and ponders the fate of Polyxena.  Hecuba awakes and curses Helen, but a messenger brings even more dire information.  Cassandra is to be the bride of Agamemnon, Andromache the p
rize of Pyrrhus, and Hecuba herself will be the slave of the hated Odysseus.  These calamitous events transpire in, FTP, what play by Euripides?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Trojan Women}{\f21\fs18 \par 
   \par 

13. His first love affair, excised from the original book but published separately  60 years later, was with actress Vesta Dunning.  His second was with the  boss's glamorous daughter Dominique.  Expelled from the Stanton Institute of  Technology, this red
head could never hold a steady job because of his uncompromising attitude, despite his evident architectural talent.  FTP, name this creation of Ayn Rand and hero of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Fountainhead}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
\tab Answer: Howard }{\f21\fs18\ul Roark \par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
14. He directed the labor section of the Bureau of Applied Social Research at Columbia until 1948, when he published }{\i\f21\fs18 The New Men of Power}{\f21\fs18 
, a study of American labor leaders.  He followed this with a critical account of the "new middle class" of the postwar era that was "morally defenseless as individuals and politically impotent as a group,\rdblquote  in 1951\rquote s }{\i\f21\fs18 
White Power}{\f21\fs18 .  For 10 points, name this leftist sociologist whose best known work 1956 study of social control by the military, politicians and corporations, }{\i\f21\fs18 The Power Elite}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Charles Wright }{\f21\fs18\ul Mills}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

15. First demonstrated in 1799, one proof uses the result that entire, bounded, complex functions are constant.  The original proof is a topological one using polynomials in the complex plane and was Gauss's doctoral thesis.  For ten points, what result st
ates that complex polynomials of degree "n" can be factored into "n" linear, complex factors. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fundamental Theorem of Algebra}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. This culture hero and trickster is prominent in the mythologies of the Native\par 

Americans of the Pacific northwest coast.   He is the principal creator of the Alaskan Inuit, and Tsimshian legend attributes the creation of humankind from an elderberry tree to him.  Other legends imbue him with an insatiable appetite or with a terrible 
temper, the latter of which leads to the breaking of the copper ma, which frees the sun to light the world.  Some peoples, such as the Tlingit of southern Alaska, break these two aspects into twin be
ings.  For 10 points, what is this bird whose trickster aspects arise from its tendency to steal and hide away small shiny objects?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Raven\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 

17. The founder of a group of poets known as the Catastrophists in the 1930s, he  served with distinction as an anti-Nazi resistance fighter during World War  II, Though a socialist, he defected to the West while serving as a diplomat in France after the w
ar, eventually emigrating to the United States to teach at Berkeley.  FTP, name this Polish author of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Captive Mind}{\f21\fs18  and recipient of the 1980 Nobel Prize in Literature. \par 
\tab Answer: Czeslaw }{\f21\fs18\ul Milosz}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 18. She was born illegitimate to a Dutch courtesan and French law student and spent much of her early life in a convent.  She wanted to be a nun, but one of her mother\rquote 
s lovers, a half-brother of Napoleon III, arranged for her to enter the Conservatoire.  Her first resounding success was in a revival of }{\i\f21\fs18 Kean}{\f21\fs18 
, a work by Alexandre Dumas pere, and she captivated international theater audiences of the Belle Epoque with her performances as the title character in Dumas fils' }{\i\f21\fs18 La Dame aux cam\'8elias}{\f21\fs18 
.  FTP, name this world renowned French theatre actress of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, known to her admirers as "the Divine Sarah."\par 
\tab Answer: Sarah }{\f21\fs18\ul Bernhardt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18 \par 

19. He died in the Naples airport in 1962 of a heart attack while on his way to meet a Hollywood interested in making a filmed biography of his life.  He rose to power by eliminating Giuseppe Masseria and Salvatore Maranzano, after surviving a rubout attem
pt on Staten Island and thereby earning his sobriquet.  In 1936, he was sentenced to prison for being a pimp, but was released to Italy in 1946 for his aid to the Allied war effort.  FTP name this crime leader, the man who organized organized crime.\par 
\tab Answer:  Charles \ldblquote Lucky\rdblquote  }{\f21\fs18\ul Luciano}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20. In his time, he was nearly worshipped by his fellow composers-Liszt compared him to Bach; and his improvisation sessions were so frenzied as to approach religious ecstasy.  He never cursed, never engaged in name-calling games
, never sought fame or money.  As a result, he is largely forgotten in our time, although his influence in French music in the 19th century was considerable, as he was the teacher of both Chausson and d'Indy.  His compositions include }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Tower of Babel}{\f21\fs18  oratorio, the opera }{\i\f21\fs18 Ghis\'8fle}{\f21\fs18 , and the symphonic }{\i\f21\fs18 Les Eolides}{\f21\fs18 
.  For 10 points, name this Belgian-born virtuoso on and major composer for the grand organ, who was organist at the church of Sainte-Clotilde, Paris.\par 
\tab Answer: Cesar }{\f21\fs18\ul Franck}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T1. The chapter entitled "From Genes to Culture" in his latest book, }{\i\f21\fs18 Consilience}{\f21\fs18 
, reflects his interest in the evolutionary origins of social behavior.  His original attraction to the topic came through entomology, for which he earned a 1990 Pulitzer for }{\i\f21\fs18 The Ants}{\f21\fs18 
.  For ten points, name this naturalist, who also wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 On Human Nature}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Sociobiology}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Edward Osborne }{\f21\fs18\ul Wilson}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
T2. A police reporter for the }{\i\f21\fs18 New York Tribune}{\f21\fs18 
 from 1877, he became known for his vivid descriptions of crime in the Mulberry Bend and Five Points areas.  The unspeakable poverty and overcrowding that he witnessed there led him to become an activist, promoting tenement regulation, care for homeless ch
ildren, the construction of playgrounds, and the closing of police lodging houses, which police commissioner Theodore Roosevelt finally did at his urging.  He began illustrating his articles with his own photography of the squalor, and his subsequent artic
le, "Flashes from the Slums" in 1888 was highly successful. For 10 points, who was this Danish immigrant and activist who gained national fame in 1890 with his photo-journalistic book }{\i\f21\fs18 How the Other Half Lives}{\f21\fs18 ?\par 
\tab Answer: Jacob }{\f21\fs18\ul Riis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T3. A former male prostitute who was convicted for theft at least ten times, he wrote most of his early works in prison.  He shocked audiences of his time with his pornographic and violent descriptions of homosexual activity in works such as }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Thief's Journal}{\f21\fs18  and Deathwatch as well as with his  unconventional, absurdist approach to the theater.  FTP, identify this French playwright of }{\i\f21\fs18 The Balcony}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Our Lady of the Flowers}{
\f21\fs18 . \par 
\tab Answer: Jean }{\f21\fs18\ul Genet}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

Out in the real world, Dottie loses her virginity to a bad sort, but discovers she likes sex.  Polly works as a nurse, and Libby writes book reviews that are almost as long as the book.  Helena was registered for the college at birth.  The eight characters
 meet together only twice, at the wedding and funeral of Kay Petersen, their Vassar classmate.  FTP name this 1954 Mary McCarthy novel.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Group}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by UT-Austin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. Name the director of each of the following screen adaptations of Shakespeare's plays for 10 points apiece.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Much Ado About Nothing}{\f21\fs18  (1993) \par 
\tab Answer: Kenneth }{\f21\fs18\ul Branagh}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Romeo and Juliet}{\f21\fs18  (1968) \par 
\tab Answer: Franco }{\f21\fs18\ul Zefferelli}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 King Lear}{\f21\fs18  (1987)  \par 
\tab Answer: Jean-Luc }{\f21\fs18\ul Goddard}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. Name the French writer of a lesser-known work for 10 points, 5 for a more famous work.\par 
1. 10 pts: }{\i\f21\fs18 The Country Doctor}{\f21\fs18 \par 
  5 pts: }{\i\f21\fs18 P\'8fre Goriot}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer: Honor\'8e de }{\f21\fs18\ul Balzac }{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. 10 points: }{\i\f21\fs18 Toilers of the Sea}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  5 pts: }{\i\f21\fs18 The Hunchback of Notre Dame}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer:Victor }{\f21\fs18\ul Hugo}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. 10 points: }{\i\f21\fs18 L\'8elia}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  5 pts: }{\i\f21\fs18 Indiana}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\tab Answer:George }{\f21\fs18\ul Sand}{\f21\fs18  or Aurore }{\f21\fs18\ul Dupin}{\f21\fs18  \par 
 \par 
3. Identify the following photosynthesis-related things and names, for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) This biochemist used carbon-14 to discover the chemical pathways of photosynthesis, a series of reactions now named for him.\par 
\tab Answer: Melvin }{\f21\fs18\ul Calvin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points)  Beginning when RuBP binds to oxygen and not carbon dioxide, it robs the Calvin cycle of carbon compounds.  This process occurs when plants close their stomata on hot, dry days. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul photorespiration}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points)  Some plants avoid photorespiration by using PEP (read:  "pep") carboxylase to make four-carbon compounds. CO2 is pumped to the bundle sheaths, elevating the concentration and slowing photorespiration. \par 
Name these plants.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul C4}{\f21\fs18  plants \par 
\par 
4. Name these members of Theodore Roosevelt\rquote s cabinet for 10 points apiece.\par 
1.  He served as TR\rquote s first Secretary of State from 1901 to 1905.\par 
\tab Answer:  John }{\f21\fs18\ul Hay}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s1\tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This grand-nephew of a world leader served as Secretary of the Navy from 1905 to 1906 before becoming Roosevelt\rquote s chief trust-buster as Attorney General.\par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Charles }{\f21\fs18\ul Bonaparte}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s1\tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab This presidential legacy became Secretary of the Interior in 1907.\par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  James R. }{\f21\fs18\ul Garfield}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. Identify the Aztec god or goddess for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) The Feathered Serpent god, he was borrowed by the Aztecs from the Toltecs.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Quetzalcoatl}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) The goddess of fertility and stored maize, she's also responsible for killing frosts.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chicomecoatl }{\f21\fs18 (also accept Chalchiuhcihuatl)\par 
3. (15 points) This brother of Chicomecoatl is the god of rain, thunder, and lightning.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tlaloc}{\f21\fs18  (also accept Tecutli)\par 
\par 
6. Identify the artists of the following paintings for 10 points apiece.\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Napoleon Enthroned}{\f21\fs18  (1806)  \par 
\tab Answer: Jean-Auguste-Dominique }{\f21\fs18\ul Ingres\par 
}{\f21\fs18 2. }{\i\f21\fs18 Wheatfield with Cypress}{\f21\fs18  (1889)   \par 
\tab Answer: Vincent van }{\f21\fs18\ul Gogh}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Woman at the Piano}{\f21\fs18  (1876)  \par 
\tab Answer: Pierre Auguste }{\f21\fs18\ul Renoir}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 7. FTP each, identify the following concerning European involvement in India during the 18th century.\par 
1.This Frenchman became Governor at Pondicherry 1742. Despite capturing Madras in 1746, he was eventually removed due to charges of financial irresponsibility.\par 
\tab Answer:  Joseph Francois }{\f21\fs18\ul Dupleix}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. In 1773, he bcame the first Governor-General of British India and was later tried and acquitted by Parliament on charges of misrule in 1795.\par 
\tab Answer:  Warren }{\f21\fs18\ul Hastings}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. In 1757, the British defeated the Nawab of Bengal at this decisive battle.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Plassey}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18 8. Name the authors of these German dramas FTSNOP. \par 
1. 5: }{\i\f21\fs18 Faust}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:  Johann Wolfgang von }{\f21\fs18\ul Goethe}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. 10:  }{\i\f21\fs18 Mary Stuart}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:  Friedrich von }{\f21\fs18\ul Schiller}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. 15:  }{\i\f21\fs18 Nathan the Wise}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:  Gotthold Ephraim }{\f21\fs18\ul Lessing}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \par 
9. Identify the following important sites for Egyptian archaeology for ten points each.  \par 
1. Two villages now exist on the ruins of Thebes, each with a variety of obelisks, sphinxes, and temples, including the Great Temple of Amon.  Name either. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Luxor}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Karnak}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  An important site of Lower Egypt, this site is noted for its step pyramids, built from the 3rd to 13th centuries BC.  The Step Pyramid of Djoser is here, the oldest known stone monument.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Saqqara}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  This site is dominated by Colossi of Ramses II and Queen Nofretari, which were moved between 1964 and 1968 to avoid being flooded by Lake Nasser.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Abu Simbel}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Abu Sunbul}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. Identify the composers of each of the following operas, whose titles are in their original languages, for 10 points apiece.\par 
}\pard \s1\tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab }{\i\f21\fs18 Les Pecheurs de perles}{\f21\fs18   \par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Georges }{\f21\fs18\ul Bizet\par 
}\pard \s1\tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab }{\i\f21\fs18 La Clemenza di Tito}{\f21\fs18      \par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus }{\f21\fs18\ul Mozart}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s1\tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab }{\i\f21\fs18 Der Freischutz}{\f21\fs18        \par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Carl Maria von }{\f21\fs18\ul Weber}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 11. FTP each, name these African wars.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab In the first of these wars, sometimes called the Cape Frontier Wars, Dutch settlers fought against the Xhosa peoples in 1779.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Kaffir}{\f21\fs18  Wars\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab In the first of these wars, Osei Bonsu defeated the British in 1824.  In the second, the British gained the southern provinces in 1874 and made them part of the Gold Coast colony.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ashanti}{\f21\fs18  Wars\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab In the first, the British were defeated at Majuba Hill in 1881.  The later war saw the siege of Kimberly.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Boer}{\f21\fs18  Wars\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18 12. Identify these works by Lowells for 10 points each.   \par 
1. James Russell published these two volumes of political verse in 1848 and 1867.\par 
  \tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Biglow Papers}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s1\tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab Amy published this 1922 imitation of James Russell\rquote s }{\i\f21\fs18 Fable for Critics}{\f21\fs18  anonymously; a year later after much speculation she revealed her authorship.\par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 A }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Critical Fable}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \s1\tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab Robert published this collection of poetry with a title work about the Civil War in 1964.\par 
}\pard \s1 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul For the Union Dead}{\f21\fs18 \par 
   \par 
13. Identify the following "limits" from astronomy, for ten points each. \par 
1.  For satellites as dense as their planet, this limit, about 2.5 times the planet's radius, is the closest they can approach without tidal disruption. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Roche}{\f21\fs18  limit \par 
2. Near 1.4 times the mass of the Sun, it's the maximum mass a white dwarf can have without collapsing to form a neutron star.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chandrasekhar}{\f21\fs18  limit \par 
3. About 3 solar masses and analogous to the Chandrasekhar limit, it's the maximum mass a neutron star can have before becoming a black hole.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Schwarzschild}{\f21\fs18  limit\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 14. For the stated number of points, name these congresses of the Congress system.\par 
1. 5:  This 1814-1815 congress was interrupted by Napoleon\rquote s return.\par 
\tab Answer:  Congress of }{\f21\fs18\ul Vienna}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. 10: The Quadruple Alliance became the Quintuple Alliance with the addition of France at this 1818 congress. \par 
\tab Answer:  Congress of }{\f21\fs18\ul Aix-la-Chapelle}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. 15: The Congress system broke down at this 1822 meeting when Britain refused to intervene in Spanish affairs.\par 
\tab Answer:  Congress of }{\f21\fs18\ul Verona}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1 {\f21\fs18 15. 15-5, Identify the name shared by characters in more than one  different work.  \par 
1. (15 points) The name of Sir Charles and his young son in Oliver Goldsmith's }{\i\f21\fs18 She Stoops to Conquer}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
(5 points) The narrator of 2 works by Joseph Conrad. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Marlow }{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (15 points) The name of Brutus' wife in Shakespeare's }{\i\f21\fs18 Julius Caesar}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
(5 points) The name of Bassanio's wife in }{\i\f21\fs18 The Merchant of Venice}{\f21\fs18 .  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Portia}{\f21\fs18  \par 
 \par 
16. As altitude increases, it usually gets colder.  Answer the following questions about this seemingly simple phenomenon for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 points) It only gets colder near the ground.  Name the boundary between the troposphere and the stratosphere where the atmospheric temperature stops decreasing with height. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tropopause}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (15 points) The term for the rate of decrease of temperature with altitude. For Earth it's typically 10 degrees Kelvin per kilometer.\par 
\tab Answer: adiabatic }{\f21\fs18\ul lapse rate}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) An anomaly in the usually positive lapse rate, this is the term used when the atmosphere gets warmer with height.\par 
\tab Answer: thermal }{\f21\fs18\ul inversion}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}{\f21\fs18\ul \par 
}{\f21\fs18 17. For 15 points each, identify the following Wordsworth poems from a quote. \par 
1.   "Whither is fled the visionary gleam? / Where is it now, the glory and the dream?" \par 
\tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul Ode: Intimations of Immortality}{\f21\fs18  from Recollections of Early Childhood"}{\f21\fs18\ul   \par 
}{\f21\fs18 2.   "Milton! thou shouldst be living at this hour / England hath need of thee" \par 
\tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul London, 1802}{\f21\fs18 "  \par 
 \par 
18. For ten points each, identify the following noteworthy contributors to their respective fields. \par 
1. He established anatomy by publishing De Corporis Humani Fabrica in 1543.  It dispelled certain ideas of Galen and included stunning drawings of corpses.\par 
\tab Answer:  Andreas }{\f21\fs18\ul Vesalius}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This Frenchman established comparative anatomy and paleontology.  In 1825's Discoure on the Revolutions of the Globe, he re-introduced catastrophism and defended a literal reading of Genesis. \par 
\tab Answer:  Baron Georges }{\f21\fs18\ul Cuvier}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. This German established biochemistry.  In 1862 he crystallized hemoglobin and 15 years later he founded the first biochemical journal. \par 
\tab Answer: Felix }{\f21\fs18\ul Hoppe-Seyler\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 19. Identify the nation, 30-20-10:\par 
1. Most of its borders are defined by the mountain ranges that surround it, among them the Dawna Range, the Bilauktaung Range, the Patkai Range, and the Manipur Hills.\par 
2. Major cities include Magwe (meh-GWA), Pegu, Sagaing (seh-GI?), and Yandabu.\par 
3. Its capital is Yangon.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Myanmar}{\f21\fs18  (also accept Burma)\par 
\par 
20. One classification scheme of volcanic activity uses six types, each associated with a signature event. For the stated number of points, answer the following.\par 
1. (5 points) In the Plinian type, boiling gases produce jets of volcanic fragments which can reach the stratosphere.  Name the eruption which gave this class its name.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Vesuvius}{\f21\fs18  (after Pliny the Elder who didn't get out of the way quickly enough)\par 
2. (10 points) Associated with a 1902 event in Martinique, this type generates pyroclastic flows and deadly mudslides. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pelean}{\f21\fs18  (accept Mount }{\f21\fs18\ul Pelee}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
3. (15 points) This type produces expanding gases which eject clots of lava in continuous small eruptions.  It is named for a volcano known as the "lighthouse of the Mediterranean". \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Strombolian}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Stromboli}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
 Identify the author from works, 30-20-10. \par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 Leaf Storm}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Chronicle of a Death Foretold}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Autumn of the Patriarch}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 No One Writes to the Colonel}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 Love in the Time of Cholera}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 One Hundred Years of Solitude}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}\pard\plain \fs20 {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Gabriel }{\f21\fs18\ul Garc\'92a Marquez}{\f21\fs18  \par 
}}