{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title 1999 ACF Nationals}{\author boggyman}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by UT-Chattanooga}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

1. Successor to the T'ung Meng Hui, it was suppressed by Yuan Shi-Kai but rose to power on Yuan's death.  While its founder was Sung Chiao-Jen, its platform was largely the work of his colleague Sun Yat-Sen.  Sun's successor Chiang Kai-Shek gradually trans
formed it into a currupt oligarchy.  FTP name this Chinese party, still in power in Taiwan.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kuomintang}{\f21\fs18 ; accept }{\f21\fs18\ul KMT}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. The second and third parts are collectively known as }{\i\f21\fs18 The Whole Contention between the two Famous Houses, Lancaster and York}{\f21\fs18 
.  In the second, a power struggle turns around the ineffective English king, as the Duke of York emerges as a contender for the throne.  In the third, the Lancastrians kill the Duke of York, and the King is murdered by York's son, the future Richard III. 
  FTP identify the name of the trilogy into which these three Shakespeare plays were arranged in the First Folio.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Henry}{\i\f21\fs18  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul VI}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3. In 1691, he reluctantly became the papal personal 
physician.  Qualifications included his advances in anatomy and embryology and his pioneering use of the microscope.  Even today his name is given to a layer of the epidermis and a structure discovered while studying the organs of silkworms. For ten points
, name the man who explained the link between respiration and circulation and who discovered capillaries. \par 
\tab Answer: Marcello }{\f21\fs18\ul Malpighi}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  \par 
4. Truly a hockey puck of history, it was subjugated by the Teutonic Knights in the early 13th century and the Poles i
n the late 1500's.  The Swedes took the sourthern portion, Livonia, in 1629 and the Russians got the rest from the Poles a century later.  In 1918 it declared independence and first let the Germans oust the Bolsheviks, then it ousted the Germans with Briti
sh help only to be retaken by the U.S.S.R. 21 years laier.  FTP name this mostly Lutheran country, independent (for now), with its capital at Riga.\tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Latvia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. There have been no fewer than 14 operas featuring this woman from Greek legend, includ
ing one by Handel and more successful treatments by Jean-Baptiste Lully and Christoph Willibald Gluck.  The preface Gluck wrote to his score is among opera's most important documents, since it sets forth his then-novel view that opera should be musical dra
ma.  The heroine herself offered to die in place of her beloved husband Admetus, but depending on which version you hear, she was allowed to return by Persephone or was dragged back from Hades by Hercules.  FTP name this titular heroine.\tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Alcestis}{\f21\fs18 ; accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Alceste}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

6. She was the twentieth child of twenty children.  In 1962, she tried to register to vote in Indianola and was promptly arrested.  In 1964, she began her dramatic testimony with the declaration "I live at 626 East Lafayette St., Ruleville, Mississippi, Su
nflower County, the home of Sen. James O. Eastland and Sen. John Stennis."  Still, she and her fellow Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party delegates were not seated at the 1964 Democratic National Convention.  FTP name this civil rights activist.\tab 
\tab \par 
\tab Answer: Fannie Lou }{\f21\fs18\ul Hamer}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

7. Skylab 4 made detailed observations of it, but from Earth it was a faint smudge near Venus and Jupiter, apparently because it was enveloped in a Hydrogen cloud.  This disappointed people who were told that it would be 5 times brighter than the moon and 
that its tail would stretch across 1/6 of the sky.  FTP what comet, named for its Czech discoverer, snuck past us in late 1973 and early 1974.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Kohoutek}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  \par 
8. This substance's patent was acknowledged as amon
g the ten which shaped the world.  Isolated while studying the biochemistry of actinomycetes, it is closely related to the substances clavacin, neomycin, and grisein.  A Nobel Prize was awarded to Selman Waksman for, for ten points, the discovery of what a
ntibiotic, the first effective treatment for tuberculosis.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul streptomycin}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
9. She won an Obie for an adaptation of Brecht's }{\i\f21\fs18 Mother Courage & Her Children}{\f21\fs18 .  Other works include }{\i\f21\fs18 From Okra to Greens: A Different Love Story}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Ridin' the Moon in Texas}{\f21\fs18 , and }
{\i\f21\fs18 A Daughter's Geography}{\f21\fs18  andthe novels }{\i\f21\fs18 Liliane}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Betsy Brown}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Sassafras, Cypress, & Indigo}{\f21\fs18 
 but is best known for a performance piece she called a "choreopoem."  FTP name the author of }{\i\f21\fs18 for colored girls who have considered suicide/when the rainbow is enuf}{\f21\fs18 . \par 
\tab Answer: Ntozake }{\f21\fs18\ul Shange}{\f21\fs18  [In-toe-zock-ee Shang-ee]\par 
\par 
10. After studying philosophy and psychiatry at Bonn he turned to painting, and in 1918 in Cologne he founded the German Dada group.  It is as a Surrealist that he made his real mark, though, with paintings like }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Blessed Virgin Chastises the Infant Jesus Before Three Witnesses: Andre Breton, Paul Eluard, and the Artist}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Breakfast on the Grass}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Homage to W.C. Fields and His Little Chickadee}{\f21\fs18 
.  In 1941 he opened the Art of This Century Gallery in New York with the third of his four wives, art patron Peggy Guggenheim.  For 10 points, name this artist of }{\i\f21\fs18 Oedipus and Two Children Are Threatened By a Nightingale}{\f21\fs18 
, a pioneer in the techniques of automatic writing, frottage, and collage.\par 
\tab Answer: Max }{\f21\fs18\ul Ernst}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

11. No other religious order has increased so rapidly in so brief a period of time as this one did during the 12th century.  Founded by St. Robert, as a return to strict interpretation of the Benedictine rule, its administration was based on the principles
 of uniformity, general chapter meeting, and visitation.  In 1112, Bernard joined, and in 1115 he was sent to Clairvaux where he laid the foundation for the order's spectacular growth.  FTP name this order, whose members include the Trappists.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Cistercian}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 

12. They had existed since the Middle Ages, but only became a hot political issue after 1815.  The one of 1815 banned foreign imports until domestic prices had reached 80 shillings a quarter.  The one of 1828 provided a sliding scale.  A league against the
m was founded in 1839, and they were abolished in 1846.  FTP name these laws loathed by David Ricardo that regulated the price of grain.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Corn}{\f21\fs18  Laws\par 
\par 
13. Any non-orientable surface contains one.  It contains one boundary curve and can
not be embedded in the real plane.  A torus can be cut into one with an even number of half-twists and a Klein bottle cut in half makes two of these.  B.F. Goodrich supposedly patented a conveyor belt in, for ten points, what form, theorizing that its one-
sidedness would ensure even wear.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mobius}{\f21\fs18  strip (or band) \par 
    \par 
14. One mile north of Charing Cross, it was established on land owned by the Duke of Bedford in the mid-19th century.  Its neat blocks of row houses interspersed with private parks b
ecame a model for urban planning, and the location there of the British Museum and the headquarters of the University of London helped it become a center for learning.  Duncan Grant, Roger Trevelyan, Arthur Waley, and Lytton Strachey were members of its gr
oup.  FTP name this London district, home to such intellectuals as John Maynard Keynes, Clive Bell, Lytton Strachey, and Virginia Woolf.\tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bloomsbury}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. He had planned a career in physics and math, but while recuperating from an illness changed plans after reading }{\i\f21\fs18 The Golden Bough}{\f21\fs18 
.  He saw cultural institutions as fulfilling three basic types of needs -- biological, instrumental, and integrative.  His breakthrough work was serendipitous; the outbreak of World War I left him stranded for three years in the Trobriand Islands, from wh
ich experience he wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 Argonauts of the Western Pacific}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Coral Gardens and Their Magic}{\f21\fs18 .  FTP name this Polish-born anthopologist.\par 
 \tab Answer: Bronislaw }{\f21\fs18\ul Malinowski}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. Napoleon called him "the bravest of the brave".  A 
soldier in the French Revolution, he first rose to prominence at the battle of Ulm in 1805.  He fought so valiantly at Borodino that Napoleon named him Prince of the Moskowa.  After Napoleon abdicated, he retained his rank under Louis XVIII, but he defecte
d rather than arrest Napoleon after his return from Elba and commanded the Old Guard at Waterloo.  FTP, name this French general, executed for treason despite Louis XVIII's efforts to save him.\tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: Michel }{\f21\fs18\ul Ney}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. The second of Ephemeris Time is adopted as the universal unit of time.  The Highway Act is signed, strating the Interstate Highway System.  Yul Brynner wins the Best Actor Oscar for }{\i\f21\fs18 The King and I}{\f21\fs18 
 and stars opposite Best Actress Ingrid Bergman in }{\i\f21\fs18 Anastasia}{\f21\fs18 
.  Bardeen, Brittain, and Shockley share the Nobel Prize for Physics.  Don Larsen throws the only perfect game in World Series History.  And the Soviets crush a rebellion in Hungary.  FTP name the year.\tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 1956}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. Kletsch is a locksmith, proud that he is a workman and a nuisance 
to his fellow lodgers, what with his constant beating of his wife.  Natsya, the prostitute, supports the Baron, who deludes himself with recollections of past glory.  Into this motley mix comes a saintly pilgrim who offers those about sympathy and hope, ei
ther if Luka's sentiments are illusions as well.  FTP name this play by Gorky about the wrethed inhabitants of a cellar.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lower Depths}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. An introduction to the field is the book }{\i\f21\fs18 The Human Use of Human Beings}{\f21\fs18 .  It uses engineering tools such
 as the theories of systems, communications, and control.  Begun as a comparative study of the automatic control systems of the central nervous system and electro-mechanical systems, it was important in the development of artificial intelligence.  For ten 
points, name this field founded in 1948 by Norbert Wiener. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cybernetics}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
20. Neither father nor son fared very well during their most famous project.  Early in the construction the father, John, contracted tetanus from a minor injury and died.  O
verexertion and caisson disease so completely ruined the health of John's son Washington that, although he lived another 40 years, he never fully recovered.  Still, he managed to oversee the bridge's completion while confined to his home near one end.  FTP
 give the family name of the designers and constructors of the Brooklyn Bridge.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Roebling}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T1. In 1997 in Norfolk, Virginia, officials were asked to recall personalized license plates issued to a man convicted of vandalizing churches.  The plates b
ore the name of this compound, manufactured by Degesch and Tesch/Stabenow and patented by I.G. Farben. For ten points, name this crystallized prussic acid, used in the showers of Auschwitz and other concentration camps.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Zyklon B}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Cyclone B}{\f21\fs18    \par 
\par 
T2. Gray with a grayish-black streak, it has a hardness of only 2.5 on the Moh scale.  Deposits in Idaho and Colorad
o contained enough silver to be mined for it, but its better known since ancient times as an ore for lead.  FTP name this mineral, principally composed of lead sulfite, for which the Illinois hometown of Ulysses Grant is named.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul galena}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  \par 
T3. Hewrote the antiwar song "Handsome Johnny" which Richie Havens performed at Woodstock.  While still in high school he won the Donaldson Award as Broadway's most promising newcomer for a supporting role in A Raisin in the Sun.  His films include }{
\i\f21\fs18 The Landlord}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Travels With My Aunt}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Skin Game}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Firewalker}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Enemy Mine}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Iron Eagle}{\f21\fs18 
.  FTP name this man, winner of the 1982 Best Supporting Actor Oscar for }{\i\f21\fs18 An Officer and a Gentleman}{\f21\fs18 .\tab \par 
\tab Answer: Louis }{\f21\fs18\ul Gossett}{\f21\fs18 , Jr.\par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by UT-Chattanooga}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. Identify the following related botany questions for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 points) Simultaneously with Carl Correns and Erich Tschermark,  this Dutch botanist rediscovered Mendel's work. \par 
\tab Answer: Hugo }{\f21\fs18\ul de Vries}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (5 points) What type of plant did Mendel use in his famous work?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pea}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Pisum sativum}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. (10 points) De Vries used another plant, now known for its oil that is used as a source of Omega-6 fatty acids. Name it. \par 
\tab Answer: evening }{\f21\fs18\ul primrose}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Oenothera lamarckiana}{\f21\fs18  \par 
4. (10 points) De Vries also investigated the relation between growth and the pressure of vacuole liquid on the cell wall.  What name is given to this pressure? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul turgor}{\f21\fs18  \par 
 \par 
2. Answer these questions about an event in Italian history FTP each.\par 
1. The first major crisis in Mussolini's reign occurred when this moderate socialist was killed following his criticism of fascist electoral fraud and intimidation.\par 
\tab Answer:  Giacomo }{\f21\fs18\ul Matteotti}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Following the murder of Matteoti, the opposition deputies walked out in protest of parliament, thus giving Mussolini complete legislative control.  Identify this protest, given the name of a Roman hill.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Aventine Secession}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Finally, in what year did the Aventine Secession take place?\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul 1924}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3. Name the work by Ovid FTSNOP.\par 
1. (5) This work chronicles changes from the creation of the world to the time of Caesar.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Metamorphoses}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10) This treatise on seduction and intrigue got Ovid into hot water.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Ars amatoria}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Art of Love}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15) This work celebrates the Roman years and its religious festivals.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Fasti}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Calendar}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 
4. Name the authors of these sociological works for the stated number of points:\par 
1.  5 points: }{\i\f21\fs18 Beyond Freedom and Dignity}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:B. F. }{\f21\fs18\ul Skinner}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  10 points: }{\i\f21\fs18 The Lonely Crowd}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:David }{\f21\fs18\ul Riesman}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  15 points: }{\i\f21\fs18 Sociology of Sport}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\tab Answer:Harry }{\f21\fs18\ul Edwards}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. For 10 pts. each, identify these physics laws as expressed in words.  \par 
1. The electrostatic force between two chargesis proportional to the  product of the charges divided by the square of the distance between them. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Coulomb}{\f21\fs18 's law  \par 
2. The current density equals the conductivity times the electric field. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ohm}{\f21\fs18 's law  \par 
3. Entropy is proportional to the natural logarithm of the number of  possible microstates. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Boltzmann}{\f21\fs18 's law or relation \par 
 \par 
6. Name the Keats poem from lines FTP each.\par 
1. "She dwells with Beauty--Beauty that must die;/And Joy, whose hand is ever at his lips/Bidding adieu"\par 
\tab Answer:  "}{\f21\fs18\ul Ode on Melancholy}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
2. "My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains / My sense, as though of hemlick I had drunk,"\par 
\tab Answer:  "}{\f21\fs18\ul Ode to a Nightingale}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
3. "Or like stout Cortez when with eagle eyes / He stared at the Pacific."\par 
\tab Answer:  "}{\f21\fs18\ul On First Looking into Chapman's Homer}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
\par 
7. Name the ecumenical council FTP each.\par 
1. It adopted the doctrine of papal infallibility.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Vatican}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul I}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This 1215 council defined the doctrine of transsubstantiation.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Fourth}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Lateran}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. This council, convened in 1415, ended the papal schism and burned Hus.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Constance}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. Surprisingly few plays have won both the Tony Award for Best Play and the Pulitzer Prize for Drama.  I'll name such a work; supply the playwright for 10 pts. each.  (And no, these aren't the same three we asked at the M.L. King tournament.)\par 
1. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Great White Hope}{\f21\fs18 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: Howard }{\f21\fs18\ul Sackler}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. }{\i\f21\fs18 That Championship Season}{\f21\fs18 \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: Jason }{\f21\fs18\ul Miller}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. }{\i\f21\fs18 The Subject Was Roses}{\f21\fs18 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: Frank }{\f21\fs18\ul Gilroy}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
9. Name these sanguinary events from European history FTP apiece.\par 
The residents of Palermo rose up against the French serving under Charles of Anjou in this 1282 event.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Sicilian Vespers }{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  King Christian II liquidated much of the Swedish nobility in this 1520 incident, precipitating the rebellion of Gustav Vasa.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Stockholm Bloodbath}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.This 1576 event, sometimes called the sack of Antwerp, saw unpaid Spanish soldiers go on a bloody rampage, killing thousands of the city's residents and seizing huge amounts of booty.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Spanish Fury}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  \par 
10. Name the architects of these American builders FTP each.\par 
1. Boston's State House, 1798\par 
\tab Answer:  Charles }{\f21\fs18\ul Bullfinch}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Trinity Church, New York, 1846\par 
\tab Answer:  Richard }{\f21\fs18\ul Upjohn}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Wainwright Building, St. Louis, 1891\par 
\tab Answer:  Louis }{\f21\fs18\ul Sullivan}{\f21\fs18  (along with Adler)\par 
\par 
11. Name the composer 30-20-10:\par 
1. His early works include "Gurrelieder" ("Songs of Gurra"), the instrumentation for which included 10 horns and a length of iron chain.  \par 
2. He invented the musical composition technique called serialism, used in works such as "Erwartung" ("Expectation") and "Pierrot Lunaire." \par 
3. He composed "Moses und Aron."  His pupils included Berg, Webern, and Cage. \par 
\tab Answer: Arnold }{\f21\fs18\ul Schoenberg}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. Homage to Julie Stahlhut: Given insects, name the order of Insecta to \par 
which they belong for five points each. \par 
1. Houseflies, gnats \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul diptera}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. Ants, wasps, and bees \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul hymenoptera}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. Dragonflies \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul odonata}{\f21\fs18  \par 
4. Termites \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul isoptera}{\f21\fs18  \par 
5. Grasshoppers, cockroaches \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul orthoptera}{\f21\fs18  \par 
6. Fireflies, ladybugs \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul coleoptera}{\f21\fs18  \tab \par 
\par 
13. Answer these questions about the reign of Elizabeth FTP.\par 
1. This adviser served as Elizabeth's secretary of state to 1572 and then lord treasurer to 1598.\par 
\tab Answer:  William }{\f21\fs18\ul Cecil}{\f21\fs18  or Lord }{\f21\fs18\ul Burghley}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This is the collective name for adventurous captains such as Hawkins and Drake who raided Spanish shipping.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Sea Dog}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3. This favorite of Elizabeth was rumored to have killed his wife and led a disatrous expedition against the Spanish in Holland in 1585.\par 
\tab Answer:  Robert }{\f21\fs18\ul Dudley}{\f21\fs18  or Earl of }{\f21\fs18\ul Leicester}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. Arthur he does what he pleases.  FTSNOP name the following authors associated with the Arthurian legend:\par 
1. 5 pts.:His 19th century }{\i\f21\fs18 Idylls of the King}{\f21\fs18  helped repopularize the legends.\tab \par 
\tab Answer: Alfred, Lord }{\f21\fs18\ul Tennyson}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. 10 pts.: Court poet of Marie de Champagne and Philip of Flanders, this 12th century poet wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 Erec et Enide}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Yvain}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Launcelot, or the Knight of the Cart}{\f21\fs18 .\tab \tab \tab 
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chr\'8etien}{\f21\fs18  de Troyes [Trwah] (prompt on partial answer)\par 
3. 15 pts.: This 13th century German poet is best known for the manuscript }{\i\f21\fs18 Parzifal}{\f21\fs18 .\tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wolfram}{\f21\fs18  von Eschenbach (prompt on partial answer)\par 
\par 
15. FTSNOP, name the first Supreme Court justice who was:\par 
1. (5) Jewish\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \line \tab Answer: Louis }{\f21\fs18\ul Brandeis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10)Catholic\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \line \tab Answer: Roger B. }{\f21\fs18\ul Taney}{\f21\fs18  ("tawny")\par 
3. (15)Appointed by a President of an opposing party\tab \tab \line \tab Answer: Stephen J. }{\f21\fs18\ul Field}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. Identify this substance, 30-20-10:   \par 
1. It was the product sold by Otto Frank's Amsterdam business where he and his family hid from the Nazis from 1942 to their arrest in 1944. \par 
2. Principal components of this acid polysaccharide compound, found in  cell walls of unlignified plant tissues, are galacturonic acid, galactose, arabinose, and methanol. \par 
3. Apples have a high concentration of it.  Under certain conditions it  forms gels, so it is used as the basis of fruit jellies.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pectin}{\f21\fs18  \par 
  \par 
17. Name the historical figure, 30-20-10:  \par 
1. There's a college named for him in Salisbury, NC, where his son Robert was among the 5,000 Union soldiers who died at a Confederate prison camp.  His writings included }{\i\f21\fs18 Missionary Travels}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 
The Zambezi and Its Tributaries}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
2. When the Boers blocked his efforts to plant native missionaries in the Transvaal, he moved north into the African interior to open new trade routes.\par 
3.  In Nov. 1871 he was found alive but not all that well in Ujiji, where he'd been recovering from a near-fatal fever.\par 
\tab Answer: David }{\f21\fs18\ul Livingstone}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. About 163 million miles from Earth, in late 1998, a small satellite became the first man-made object to orbit an asteroid.  For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about this satellite. \par 
1. (5 pts) What is the satellite's acronym? \par 
 \tab Answer:}{\f21\fs18\ul NEAR}{\f21\fs18   \par 
2. (10 pts) What does NEAR stand for?  \par 
 \tab Answer:}{\f21\fs18\ul Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous}{\f21\fs18   \par 
3. (15 pts) Which asteroid does NEAR orbit? \par 
 \tab Answer:}{\f21\fs18\ul Eros}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
19. Name the author, 30-20-10:\par 
1. Her short stories include "Fahrvergnugen," "The Nickel Plan," "A Quarrelsome Peace," and two which won her O. Henry Prizes, "The Pleasure of Her Company" and "Lily."\par 
2. While critically acclaimed, her early novels }{\i\f21\fs18 The Greenlanders }{\f21\fs18 and }{\i\f21\fs18 Barn Blind}{\f21\fs18  were nowhere near as widely read as her reviews of others' novels in the New York Times Book Review.\par 
3. While far behind another professor from Iowa in sales, she did win the 1992 Pulitzer for }{\i\f21\fs18 A Thousand Acres}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Jane }{\f21\fs18\ul Smiley}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
20. Given a unique county name in the United States, name the major city which can be found there, 10 pts. each:\par 
1. Hennepin\tab \line \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Minneapolis}{\f21\fs18 \tab \tab \tab \par 
2. Bexar\tab \tab \line \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul San Antonio}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Maricopa\tab \line \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Phoenix}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \par 
Name the guy from resume items, 30-20-10:  \par 
1. Co-author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Introduction to Quantum Mechanics}{\f21\fs18  (1935), he confirmed that sickle-cell anemia is genetic. With Robert Corey, worked on the structures of amino acids and polypeptides.   \par 
2. Author of "The Nature of the Chemical Bond and the Structure of  Molecules and Crystals" (1939), he was awarded a Nobel for his research and its "elucidation of the structure of complex substances".  \par 
3. He was awarded another Nobel for his work leading to the Nuclear Test Ban Treay. \par 
\tab Answer: Linus }{\f21\fs18\ul Pauling}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
OK, so you'd have no trouble naming the all-time record holde
rs in major league baseball in most major lifetime categories.  What about the guy in second?  I'll name a category and the record holder; F10PE tell me who currently sits in 2nd place.  If you need a second clue you'll only get 5 pts.\par 
1. 10pts: At-bats, Pete Rose\tab \tab \tab \par 
5pts: He's also first in home runs and RBI's.\par 
\tab Answer: Hank }{\f21\fs18\ul Aaron}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. 10pts: Stolen bases, Rickey Henderson\tab \par 
5pts: He led the St. Louis Cardinals to two world championships in the Sixties.\tab \tab \par 
\tab Answer: Lou }{\f21\fs18\ul Brock}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. 10pts: Shutouts, Walter Johnson\tab \tab \par 
5pts: After alcohol had virtually ended his career, he made a stirring comeback by pitching brilliantly to lead the Cardinals over the Yankees in the 1926 World Series.\par 
\tab Answer: Grover Cleveland }{\f21\fs18\ul Alexander}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}}