{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{
\f2010\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \f2005\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title The battlefied cannot be precisely located, and it may have been a series of running engagements}{\author Brian Rostron}}
\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f2010\fs20 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Vanderbilt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

1. The battlefield cannot be precisely located, and it may have been a series of running engagements.  Its significance for world history has often been overstated; internal dissent stopped the advance more than the outcome of the battle.  Abd-ar-Rahman, g
overnor of Cordoba had defeated Eudes, Duke of Aquitaine, but according to legend his attack was stopped by Charles at this site.  FTP name this 732 victory for Charles Martel.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Poitiers}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Tours}{\f21\fs18    \par 
\par 

2. His writings seem to indicate that he was not Jewish, but of Greek descent. His authorship is speculative, however, since it was not until the 2nd century that Christians ascribed his traditional canonical work to him, associating him with a character m
entioned in Colossians, II Timothy, and Philemon.  Christian mythology rel
ates that he drew a sketch of the Virgin Mary, so he is considered the patron saint of religious painting.  For 10 points, name this companion of St. Paul and author of two New Testament books addressed to "Theophilus" who is also the patron saint of physi
cians.\par 
\tab Answer: St. }{\f21\fs18\ul Luke}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
3. Among the third generation of this family, Christian eventually marries his mistress, who then commits him to a mental institution.  Tom, based on the author\rquote s own father, dies following a fall on a snowy street.  Their father 
Johann is a hard-working and deeply religious man.  His father, also named Johann, manages the family\rquote 
s successful grain-trading firm, although its fortunes decline in later years.  FTP, name this German industrial family, the subject of a 1901 novel by Thomas Mann.\par 
\tab Answer:  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Buddenbrooks}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. All fundamental solutions of this result are generated from pairs of relatively prime integers which aren't both odd.  Most proofs use either similarity arguments, the dissection of plane figures, or shears; the la
tter being the case in Proposition 47 of Euclid's Elements.  For ten points, what theorem was demonstrated by Leonardo da Vinci and James Garfield, but was first proven 2500 years ago? \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pythagorean}{\f21\fs18  theorem \par 
 \par 

5. Travelling through Newark on his way to be crowned, he saw a pickpocket caught red-handed, and ordered the thief to be summarily executed.  When he was informed that the accused had to be tried, he expressed dismay at the vagaries of the English common 
law.  This lack of understanding caused his conflicts with the \ldblquote Addled Parliament,\rdblquote  which he dissolved after leaders like John Pym refused to grant him certain revenues known as \ldblquote impositions\rdblquote 
 in 1614.  FTP, name this Stuart king of England and Scotland, father of Charles I.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul James}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul I}{\f21\fs18  Stuart (of England) or }{\f21\fs18\ul James}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul VI}{\f21\fs18  Stuart of Scotland\par 
\par 
6. Born in Vic, a Burgundian village, this 17th century painter trod the boundary line between Classicism and the emerging Baroque style of Italy, although it is unlikely that he ever left France.  Little 
is known about his early work and chronology, but he worked at Luneville in the duchy of Lorraine.  Some lesser known paintings include The Penitent Magdalene and St. Sebastian Tended by St. Irene.  FTP, name the French painter of tenebroso--dark, candle-l
it--scenes like The Dream of St. Joseph and beautifully detailed full-light scenes like The Fortune Teller.\par 
      \tab Answer: Georges de }{\f21\fs18\ul La Tour}{\f21\fs18 \par 
              \par 
7. This Austrian composer attended the premier of }{\i\f21\fs18 Parsifal}{\f21\fs18 , and after Wagner\rquote s death said that he s
poke to his idol in his dreams.  Slight of build and usually penniless, one of his few jobs was editing the critical magazine Salonblatt.  His harsh denunciation of stars like Brahms in favor of progressives like Bruckner led his major early pieces, Quarte
t in D Minor and the tone poem }{\i\f21\fs18 Penthesilia}{\f21\fs18 , to attract great hostility.  He proceeded to write a series of songs based on the works of Eichendorff, M\'9arike, and Goethe.  FTP, name the composer of the operas }{\i\f21\fs18 
Manuel Venegas}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Der Corregidor}{\f21\fs18 , as well as the orchestral }{\i\f21\fs18 Italian Serenade}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Hugo }{\f21\fs18\ul Wolf}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 

8. He lives in Gnippa (NIP-pa) Cave and has a monstrous appearance: four eyes and a blood-stained chest.  Though vigilarnt, he could be appeased with a Hel cake by anyone who had conscientiously given alms to the poor while among the living.  The guardian 
of Helheim, he was, therefore, the Norse equivalent Cerberus.  For 10 points, who is this Hound of Hel who is destined to engage in a mutual fight to the death at Ragnarok with Tyr, the Aesir god of war?\par 
      \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Garm\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 

9. It concerns the young, still beardless king of Thebes, Pentheus.  A puritan, he detests the sexual excesses associated with traditional forms of worships, and imprisons many of the participants including even a god.  When the female worshipers are mirac
ulously released, Pentheus feels compelled to see the rites, but is hacked to pieces by the women, including among them his own mother Agave.  FTP name this play by Euripides about the Dionysian rites.\par 
\tab Answer:  the }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bacchae}{\f21\fs18  or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Bacchantes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

10. It is composed of a central ribose group, a purine, and a trailing chain of three ion groups.  Because the change in free energy caused by its hydrolysis at a pH of 7 is only about 8 kilocalories per mole, a healthy eukaryotic cell uses approximately o
ne million of this type of molecule every minute. FTP, name the compound whose exergonic hydrolysis is the major source of energy in cellular reactions.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ATP}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul adenosine triphosphate}{\f21\fs18 )  \par 
   \par 
11. Its leaders were closely connected with the Russian government through Count Giovanni Capo d\rquote Istria (duh-iss-TREE-yah).  In fact, its leader, at the head of the secret society known as the Philik\'8e
 Hetairia, was a member of the Russian army and was born in Moldovia, not the country fighting for independenc
e.  FTP, name the struggle led by Alexander Hypsilanti (IP-sill-ahn-tay), which saw the battles of Missolonghi (MISS-oh-LONG-ee) and Chios (KEY-os).\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Greek}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul Independence}{\f21\fs18  war or movement\par 
\par 
12. The poloidal magnetic field is usually made by a solenoid 
driving a toroidal current within this device.  A vertical field corrects for drift, while exterior coils generate a toroidal field which can be 10 Tesla.  Acting as a magnetic bottle, the fields constrain the plasma in the torodial containment area.  FTP,
 give the name, originally a Russian acronym, of this type of fusion reactor. \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul tokamak}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept "stellerator"; for the show-offs, the Russian is approximately:  }{\f21\fs18\ul toroidalnaya kamera ee magnitnaya katushka}{\f21\fs18 )  \par 
 \par 
13. This twentieth-century playwright was the son of a clergyman in Konolfingen.  His more obscure plays include }{\i\f21\fs18 Portrait of a Planet}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 Romulus the Great}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 It Is Written}{\f21\fs18 
.  One of the works for which he is best known deals with a sinister group of scientists, the other with a wealthy aged woman who pays a town to kill her old lover.  FTP, name the Swiss playwright best known for }{\i\f21\fs18 The Physicists}{\f21\fs18 
 and }{\i\f21\fs18 The Visit}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Friedrich }{\f21\fs18\ul D\'9frrenmatt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
14. This philosopher was one of the first to apply the phenomenological method to politics.  This s
tudent of Karl Jaspers and Martin Heidegger rejected the Western political tradition from Plato to Marx, arguing that the apex of human achievement is not thought, but the active life, dividing it into repetitious, but life-sustaining labor, work which cre
ates objects and a human world, and action - especially of the political variety-new activity involving shared enterprises, in The Human Condition.  For 10 points, name this influential philosopher who penned The Origins of Totalitarianism and Eichmann in 
Jerusalem.\par 
\tab Answer: Hannah }{\f21\fs18\ul Arendt\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 

15. By the terms of this agreement, the United States had to absorb some $5 million in lawsuits against the Spanish government, but had to pay no purchase fee.  In fact, the U.S.A. already controlled the northwestern portion of the new territory from Madis
on\rquote s 1810 annexation of that area.  Although the agreement was signed in 1819, its terms were not implemented until 1821.  FTP, name this agreement that led to the U.S. acquisition of the state of Florida, partially named after a future President.
\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Adams}{\f21\fs18 -}{\f21\fs18\ul Onis}{\f21\fs18  Treaty\par 
\par 

16. For water this constant is approximately 80, larger than most liquids.  Since it gives a measure of a solvent's insulating ability, the greater this chemical property, the greater a solvent's ability to separate opposite charges from each other.  FTP, 
give the chemistry term that gives a rough indication of a solvent's polarity and ability to store electric fields.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul dielectric}{\f21\fs18  constant or }{\f21\fs18\ul relative permittivity}{\f21\fs18  \par 
 \par 
17. An American dies.  It
 is soon determined that he was an infamous child kidnapper and killer.  A misplaced button, overheard conversations, a mongrammed handkerchief, and a mysterious figure in a kimono become important clues for Hercule Poirot.  Of course, his snow-trapped fel
low travellers are intrigued as well.  FTP name this Agatha Christie about a famous train.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Murder on the Orient Express}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. The story was broken by Berlin Radio in 1943, and within a week the expatriate Polish government under Premier Sikorski had filed an official complaint with the International Red Cross.  Moscow officials denied the Red Cross\rquote 
 request to investigate, but evidence pointed to a spring 1940 date.  The perpetrators were probably the Russian NKVD, and over 2,000 Polish officers we
re found shot in the head.  FTP, identify the massacre named after a forest near Smolensk (SMALL-ensk), Russia.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Katyn}{\f21\fs18  Forest Massacre (CAT-ain but accept anything phonetic)\par 
\par 
19. Its functions include inhibiting seed germination and halting transpi
ration in droughts.  Mediating the plant's reaction during times of stress, it is found in the stem, root cap, and older leaves. FTP, name this plant hormone which, in contrast to auxins, promotes the falling, or abscission, of leaves before winter dormanc
y, \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul abscisic acid}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul ABA}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
20. Its presiding officer had to stand upon a lava promontory called Law Rock and recite all the laws passed by the body that year--a natural and effective check on legislative power and long-windedness.  Located upon t
he plains of Thingvellir, it was founded in 930 AD, making it the oldest parliamentary body in the world.  FTP, name the General Assembly of Iceland.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Althing}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

T1. He was a lifelong civil servant and an increasingly fervent Buddhist devotee.  Born in 699, he typically wrote in five-line tanka verses that were initially quite florid and reflective of his lavish aristocratic upbringing.  Eventually, he turned to th
e more introspective and terse poetic style for which he is known.  FTP, name this Chinese poet of the T\rquote ang period.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Wang}{\f21\fs18  Wei\par 
\par 

T2. Joseph Taylor and Russell Hulse used the signals from one of these objects to test Einstein's prediction of gravitational radiation.  As in the nearby example in Vela, they are formed when a supernova leaves a rapidly-spinning magnetic object which the
n produces regular bursts of radio emission at Earth.  For ten points, name this type of neutron star discovered in 1967 by Anthony Hewish and Jocelyn Bell. \par 
 \tab Answer: (binary) }{\f21\fs18\ul pulsar}{\f21\fs18  (prompt on neutron star) \par 
\par 

T3. It floats due to the vesicles produced during formation.  Essentially liquid when effused, it cools quickly enough to prevent crystallization.  After solidification, dissolved gases are suddenly released, leading to the characteristic frothy nature, bu
t if cooled at greater pressures this pyroclastic igneous rock would have formed obsidian.  For ten points, name this porous volcanic rock.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul pumice}{\f21\fs18  \par 
   \par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Vanderbilt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. Given the main characters of a W. Somerset Maugham book, name it FTP each.\par 
1. Willie Ashenden, Alroy Kear\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Cakes and Ale}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. Larry Darrell, Elliott Templeton\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18 The }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Razor\rquote s Edge}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. Mildred, Philip Carey\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Of Human Bondage}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. Identify the following astronomical terms which begin with the letter "H".  \par 
1. (5 points) In triple-alpha reactions, three atoms of this element are fused into one carbon atom.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul helium}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (10 points) This diagram plots the distances and velocities of extragalactic objects.  The graph is seen to be linear and the slope provides a measure of the age of the Universe. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hubble}{\f21\fs18  diagram \par 
3. (15 points) Based on a terrestrial science, this discipline uses the vibrational frequencies of the Sun to probe its internal structure.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul helioseismology}{\f21\fs18   \par 
 \par 
3. Name the Latin American leaders FTP.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This dictator of the Dominican Republic from 1930 to 1961 had the capital renamed for him.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Rafael }{\f21\fs18\ul Trujillo}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This Nicaraguan led resistance forces against U.S. occupying troops from 1926 until his betrayal and death in 1933.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Augusto }{\f21\fs18\ul Sandino}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab He ruled Cuba from 1940 to 1944 and 1952 to 1959.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  Fulgencio }{\f21\fs18\ul Batista}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Given a description of an educator whose methods have been widely adapted, name that person FTP each.\par 
1. This 20th century Italian woman, it stresses letting children learn by themselves.\par 
\tab Answer: Maria }{\f21\fs18\ul Montessori}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This Bostonian founded the first English-speaking kindergarten in the U.S., and was instrumental in the institution of a nationwide kindergarten system.\par 
\tab Answer: Elizabeth }{\f21\fs18\ul Peabody}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. This 19th century Swiss educator believed that children ought to learn primarily through sense experience.\par 
\tab Answer: Johann Heinrich }{\f21\fs18\ul Pestalozzi}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. You\rquote ll get ten points if you can identify a Greek hero from his lineage and five if you need to hear some more information.\par 
1. (10 points) He was the son of Aeacus and brother of Peleus, with whom he killed his half-brother Phocus.\par 
(5 points) After adventures with Jason and Hercules, his two marriages produced Teucer and Ajax.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Telamon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) The son of Chione and Hermes, he was Hercules\rquote  wrestling coach.\par 
(5 points) Better known as a master thief, he was the grandfather of Odysseus.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Autolychus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (10 points) The son of Theiodamas, King of the Dryopians, he was adopted by Hercules after that hero killed his father.\par 
(5 points) Jason left Hercules after he spent too much time looking for this man, who had been captured by a water nymph.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hylas\par 
\par 
}{\f21\fs18 6. Identify the following organelles constructed from microtubules FTP each.   \par 
1. Consisting of nine fused microtubule doublets forming an outer ring and two central unfused microtubules running down the center, this appendage beats stiffly to propel organisms.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cilium}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul cilia}{\f21\fs18  (also accept }{\f21\fs18\ul flagella}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul flagellum}{\f21\fs18 ) \par 
2. Consisting of nine fused microtubule triplets but no inner microtubules, this organelle is located at the base of every eukaryotic cilia.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul basal body}{\f21\fs18  (also accept }{\f21\fs18\ul kinetosome}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul blepharoplast}{\f21\fs18 ) \par 
3. Almost identical to basal bodies and present in all eukaryotes except for the cells of flowering plants and pines, they occur in pairs at right angles to each other and help organize microtubules during cell division.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul centriole}{\f21\fs18  \par 
 \par 
7. 5-10-15 Answer the following questions about the \ldblquote Old Man of Europe,\rdblquote  the Ottoman Empire, in the 19th century.\par 
1. (5 points) On June 15th and 16th, Mahmud II massacred what corps of elite troops?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Janissarie}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
2. (10 points) A multinational fleet of European ships entered this harbor and dispatched a huge Egyptian contingent in this lopsided October 20, 1827 \ldblquote battle.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: battle of }{\f21\fs18\ul Navarino}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) This 1829 treaty, overseen by the Prussian Major von Muffling, saw the enforcement of the London Protocol of several months before, restoring some of Russia\rquote s European conquests to the Turks.\par 
\tab Answer: Treaty of }{\f21\fs18\ul Adrianople}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
\page 8. Name these characters from \ldblquote Crime and Punishment\rdblquote  FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This saintly woman sells herself into prostitution and accompanies Raskolnikov to Siberia.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Sonia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.    This wily detective compels Raskolnikov to confess in a manner that recalls that of Columbo.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Porfiry}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This sister of Raskolnikov wishes to marry for money.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Dounia}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \par 
9. Answer the following related philosophy questions FTSNOP each.\par 
1. 5:  This philosophical system, represented by James Mill, evaluates ctions based on their effects and usefulness.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul utilitarianism}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. 10:  This English utilitarian philosopher, author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation}{\f21\fs18 , was trained as a lawyer but never went into the practice.  He popularized the phrase \ldblquote 
the greatest good for the greatest number.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: Jeremy }{\f21\fs18\ul Bentham}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. 15:  This 18th century Scot, author of }{\i\f21\fs18 Inquiry into Our Ideas of Beauty and Virtue}{\f21\fs18 , was the first to use the phrase popularized by Bentham, \ldblquote the greatest good for the greatest number.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: Francis }{\f21\fs18\ul Hutcheson\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
10. Identify the following related artists for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) The teacher of Giulio Romano, he is known for painting Madonna of the Goldfinch and Triumph of Galatea.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Raphael}{\f21\fs18  (or Raffaello Sanzio or Raffaello Santi)\par 
2. (15 points) Raphael's teacher, he specialized in delicate Madonnas, but his best work is Christ Giving the Keys to St. Peter at the Sistine Chapel. \par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Perugino}{\f21\fs18  (or Pietro di Cristophoro Vannucci) \par 
3. (10 points) Perugino studied under this artist from Borgo San Sepolcro, whose best-known works are The Baptism of Christ and the fresco cycle The Legend of the True Cross.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Piero}{\f21\fs18  della Francesca \par 
\par 
11. Name the underground national park from a brief description, 5-10-15.\par 
1. (5 points) Located in southeastern New Mexico, this park is one of the largest subterranean areas in the world.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Carlsbad }{\f21\fs18 Caverns National Park\par 
2. (10 points) Long known to Native Americans, it was used as a source of saltpeter by U.S. forces during the War of 1812.  With over 300 miles of passages, it sprawls under south-western Kentucky.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Mammoth}{\f21\fs18  Cave\par 
3. (15 points) This colorful site under Wheeler Peak in Whitepine County, Nevada was formerly a national monument, but was taken over by the Great Basin National Park in 1987.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Lehman}{\f21\fs18  Caves National Monument\par 
\par 
12. Identify the following events of the American Revolution from 1779 for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (10 points) This man led a force of Virginians into Northwest in February, capturing the British General Hamilton at the Battle of Vincennes.\par 
\tab Answer: George Rogers }{\f21\fs18\ul Clark}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (5 points) This sea commander led the Bonhomme Richard in a smashing September 23rd victory.\par 
\tab Answer: John Paul }{\f21\fs18\ul Jones}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (5 points for one and 15 points for both) Name the two ships John Paul Jones sank in his victory.\par 
\tab Answer: H. M. S. }{\f21\fs18\ul Serapis}{\f21\fs18  and H. M. S. }{\f21\fs18\ul Countess of Scarborough}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. Given a description of a type of light-based microscopy, name it FTP each.  \par 
1. In this type, light passes directly though the sample cells.  To increase contrast, the specimen is usually stained. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul bright-field}{\f21\fs18  microscopy \par 
2. This type increases detail definition by emphasizing differences in refractive indices.  It eliminates the need to stain specimens before viewing.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul phase-contrast}{\f21\fs18  microscopy \par 
3. Two microscopes focused on the same region are used.  One focuses light onto the specimen while the other receives it.  The object is scanned to build up the complete image. \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul confocal}{\f21\fs18  scanning microscopy \par 
 \par 
14. Some people DO call themselves \ldblquote Maurice.\rdblquote   Name these literary \ldblquote Maurices,\rdblquote  5-10-15.\par 
1. (5 points) This children\rquote s storyteller wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 Outside Over There}{\f21\fs18  and }{\i\f21\fs18 Where the Wild Things Are}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Maurice }{\f21\fs18\ul Sendak}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) This Belgian wrote }{\i\f21\fs18 The Intelligence of Flowers}{\f21\fs18 , }{\i\f21\fs18 The Blue Bird}{\f21\fs18 , and }{\i\f21\fs18 Pell\'8eas and M\'8elisande}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Maurice }{\f21\fs18\ul Maeterlinck}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15 points) This New Zealand native wrote the novel }{\i\f21\fs18 The Lovelock Version}{\f21\fs18 , the play }{\i\f21\fs18 Once on Chunuk Bair}{\f21\fs18 , and the short story collection }{\i\f21\fs18 The New Zealanders}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Maurice }{\f21\fs18\ul Shadbolt}{\f21\fs18 \par 
 \par 
\page 15. As Mel Brooks points out, \ldblquote It\rquote s good to be the King!\rdblquote   Name these \ldblquote acquaintances\rdblquote  of French kings for 10 points apiece.\par 
1.  Louis XIV\rquote s main lover in the first half of his reign, she encouraged him to have a flowery, beautiful court life.\par 
\tab Answer: Mlle de la Valliere, Madame de }{\f21\fs18\ul Montespan}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. The widow of Scarron, this lady was secretly wedded to Louis XIV in the second half of his reign.\par 
\tab Answer: Madame de }{\f21\fs18\ul Maintenon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. This influential mistress dominated court politics in Louis XV\rquote s court and engineered the political rises of men like Rene de Maupeou and Etienne de Choiseul.\par 
\tab Answer: Madame Lenormand d\rquote \'83toiles, nee Jeanne Annette Poisson, Marquise de }{\f21\fs18\ul Pompadour\par 
}{\f21\fs18 \par 
16. Identify the following terms used with respect to carbonyl compounds for \par 
the stated number of points.  \par 
 1. (5 points) In this family of compunds, the carbon in the carbonyl group is bonded to at least one hydrogen. \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul aldehyde}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (5 points)  Unlike the aldehydes, in this family the two bonds of the carbon are linked to other carbons.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ketone}{\f21\fs18 s \par 
 3. (10 points) Aldehydes and ketones have a form where a hydrogen moves from a neighboring carbon to the carbonyl oxygen, thus creating an alkene bond and a hydroxyl group.  Name this form.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul enol}{\f21\fs18 s \par 
 4. (10 points)  This is the term for the interconversion between keto and enol forms of carbonyl compounds.  \par 
 \tab Answer: keto-enol }{\f21\fs18\ul tautomerization}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
17. Name these Civil War battles not fought in Virginia or Tennessee.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab Union forces were defeated in this initial battle in the western theater, fought on August 10, 1861.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Wilson\rquote s Creek}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab Union forces were victorious at this March 1862 Arkansas battle also called Elkhorn Tavern.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Pea Ridge}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab Don Carlos Buell stopped Braxton Bragg\rquote s invasion of Kentucky in this October 1862 battle.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Perryville}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
Name the result from calculus, for ten points each.  Assume all functions are well-behaved. (Note to reader: The mathematical notation has been translated into written English.  Just read it as written on the page.)  \par 
 1. For a function on an interval there is a point inside the interval where the derivative of the function equals the difference of the function evaluated at the endpoints divided by the length of the interval.  \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul mean value}{\f21\fs18  theorem \par 
2. The integral of a function on an interval is approximately: one-half the interval width divided by the number of sub-intervals times, open parentheses, the sum of the funct
ion at the endpoints and two times the function at the intermediate points, close parentheses.   \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul trapezoidal rule}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. The surface integral of the curl of a vector field equals the line integral of the same vector field taken around the perimeter of the surface. \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Stokes}{\f21\fs18 's Theorem\par 
\par 
18. Name the characters from \ldblquote Alice\rquote s Adventures in Wonderland\rdblquote  FTP each.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab This timid, kindly man is dominated by his wife, but manages to pardon her victims.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul King of Hearts}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab This ever-sobbing animal repeats his life story to anyone who wil  listen.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Mock Turtle}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab This animal acts as a ball in the game of croquet.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Hedgehog}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. Identify the following concerning precious stones, for the stated number of points. \par 
 1. (5 points) A form of corundum, its red color comes from the replacements of small amounts of aluminum by chromium. \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ruby}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. (10 points) Hydrated copper and aluminum phosphate, extensive deposits are found in Iran and the southwestern United States.  \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul turquoise}{\f21\fs18  \par 
3. (15 points) Emeralds, aquamarines, and heliodors are different colored varieties of this mineral composed of beryllium aluminum silicate. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul beryl}{\f21\fs18  \par 
\par 
20. Given a description, name the similarly titled musicians FTP each.\par 
1. This 19th century Frenchman is best known for the ballet }{\i\f21\fs18 Giselle}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: Adolphe Charles }{\f21\fs18\ul Adam}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. This 20th century American is best known for the opera }{\i\f21\fs18 Nixon in China}{\f21\fs18 .\par 
\tab Answer: John Coolidge }{\f21\fs18\ul Adams}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. This 13th century French trouv\'8fre is best known for his \ldblquote Plays.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Adam de la Halle}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Adam le Bossu}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
\page After a definition of a computer term, you will get 10 points for giving either the appropriate acronym or its expansion.  You will receive five points if, given the acronym, you can then expand it. \par 
 1. (10 points) This is a circuit board with RAM chips and pins connecting it to the motherboard.  Unlike its predecessor, it supports 64-bit data transfer.  \par 
(5 points) DIMM \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Dual Inline Memory Module}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul DIMM}{\f21\fs18  if answered after part 1) \par 
 2. (10 points) The organization which fosters the development of technology standards in the US.  This group developed ASCII. \par 
 (5 points) ANSI \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul American National Standards Institute}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul ANSI}{\f21\fs18  after part 1) \par 
 3. (10 points) Developed by Philip Zimmerman, this encryption program is the standard for e-mail security.  It comes in two public key versions --- RSA and Diffie-Hellmann.  \par 
 (5 points) PGP \par 
 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pretty Good Privacy}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\f21\fs18\ul PGP}{\f21\fs18  after part 1)\par 
}}