{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}
{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}
{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f5600\fnil AG Old Face Outline;}{\f5601\fnil AG Old Face BoldOutline;}
{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5674\fnil Woodtype Ornaments 2;}{\f5675\fnil Poplar;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6688\fnil Rosewood Regular;}{\f6689\fnil Rosewood Fill;}
{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f8940\fnil Madrone;}{\f8943\fnil Willow;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f10894\fnil Dorchester Script MT;}{\f10915\fnil Goudy Text MT;}{\f10954\fnil Castellar MT;}{\f11568\fnil City Bold;}
{\f11569\fnil City Medium;}{\f11570\fnil City Bold Italic;}{\f11571\fnil City Medium Italic;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f13104\fnil Ponderosa;}{\f13217\fnil NuptialScript;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f14891\fnil Carta;}
{\f14898\fnil Stencil;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\f22 
\sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title washu.rtf}{\author Charles Newman}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \f22 {\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Tossups by Washington University-St. Louis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 1. When the fateful idea was broached to her, she promptly fainted.  At a young age, she spoke both Latin and Greek, finding solace in her studies from the harsh treatment of her parents, the M
arques and Marchioness of Dorset.  Her marriage to Guildford Dudley secured the power of Dudley's father, the Duke of Northumberland, who eventually persuaded Edward to name her his heir.  After Edward's death in 1553, this woman reigned for nine days.  Fo
r 10 points, name this sixteen- year-old English queen.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: Lady Jane }{\f21\fs18\ul Grey}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 2. At low power levels a positive void coefficient meant a decrease in water flow increased steam production and led to an increased neutron flux.  During a test to show a coa
sting turbine could provide sufficient power to pump coolant, these conditions were reached leading to two explosions. For 10 points, name the site of this April 26, 1986 accident, called the worst man-made disaster in history.\par 
\tab   Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Chernobyl}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul RBMK}{\f21\fs18  reactor during first sentence with an amazed look)\par 
\par 
3. Born in 1867, she was neglected by an alcoholic mother, and before she was ten she wandered the streets of Montmartre, skipped school, and took pride in a prodigious filth.  "Washing is for pigs,
" she said.  "I am a monkey, I am a cat."  Various friend or lover to several French painters, her tiny size made Toulouse-Lautrec feel tall beside her, so he introduced her to Degas, who encouraged her.  Although she had no formal training, her work showe
d a fresh, personal vision-particularly in the fiercely objective nudes and self-portraits that reveal her formidable character.  For 10 points, who was this artist of The Blue Room and Nude on a Striped Bedspread, who was also the mother of the artist Mau
rice Utrillo?\par 
      Answer: Suzanne }{\f21\fs18\ul Valadon}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

4. Closely related to the Lucas numbers, it can be found in the sums of the shallow diagonals of Pascal's triangle.  One-half of the sum of one and the square root of five, also called the golden mean, is the limiting ratio of terms of, for ten points, wha
t sequence first derived in 13th century Italy by considering the reproduction of immortal rabbits. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Fibonacci}{\f21\fs18  sequence or numbers\par 
\par 
5. St. Bede the Venerable declared that the name derived from an Anglo
-Saxon goddess whose name meant "Radiant Dawn".  Feasts to her and her earlier German cognate were accompanied by singing, rejoicing, processionals, flowers, and the ringing of bells.  Her cult customs of lighting new fires at dawn for crop protection and 
healing still exist among some European agricultural communities.  Her myths identify her consort as a rabbit.  For 10 points, who was this goddess whose name Christians appropriated for their sound-alike central holiday?\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Easter}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Eastre}{\f21\fs18  (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Eostre}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Ostara}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

6. He was born in 1877 on the edge of the Black Forest into a missionary household.  He was expected to enter the ministry, but an early religious crisis drove him into writing.  His first two novels, Peter Camenzied and Urteum Rad, were published in 1904 
and 1906 respectively, but it was not until 1919 that he gained international fame with his publication of Demian.  For 10 points name this German-born author of Magister Ludi and Steppenwolf.\par 
\tab Answer: Herman }{\f21\fs18\ul Hesse}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7. She worked as
 a military nurse in Canada during World War I and then as a social worker in Boston.  In 1931, she married publisher George Putnam but kept her married name.  Four years after travelling the route as a passenger, in 1932 she became the first woman to fly 
solo across the Atlantic.  FTP name this woman who disappeared on a round-the-world flight five years later.\par 
\tab Answer:  Amelia }{\f21\fs18\ul Earhart}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
8. Joanna and John meet in Hawaii.  They fall in love, decide to get married, and fly back to Los Angelos to tell Joanna'
s parents.  Christina eventually supports her daughter, but Matthew Drayton refuses to bless the marriage because Joanna is white and John is black.  These events take place \'96 for 10 points \'96
 in what acclaimed 1967 Stanley Kramer film starring Spencer Tracy, Katherine Hepburn, and Sidney Poitier?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Guess Who's Coming To Dinner}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
9. Elsa was a blue-eyed German peasant who gave up her child to her employer's wife.  Hamilton was that son who was of great service to the people.  Jones ended up with a brok
en laugh, a thousand memories, and not a single regret.  Anne was the beloved of Abraham Lincoln.  We are told in the beginning, though, that all, all are sleeping on the hill in \'96 for 10 points \'96 what magnum opus of Edgar Lee Masters?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Spoon River Anthology}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. In this gas-filled cylinder, the voltage between the walls and the axial wire is larger than in either a proportional counter or ionization chamber. Entering energetic particles ionize the gas and produce an avalanche of electrons that gene
rate a current pulse. What detector, for ten points, does not measure particle energy, instead producing the same characteristic click for all radiation? \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Geiger}{\f21\fs18  counter (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul Geiger-Muller}{\f21\fs18  counter)\par 
\par 

11. The first is on the Quakers.  The second is on the Quakers.  The third and fourth letters are on the Quakers.  The fourteenth compares Descartes to Newton, much to the latter's advantage.  The fifteenth letter includes the famous anecdote about Newton 
and the falling fruit.  FTP name this 1734 work in praise of British liberalism by Voltaire.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Letters on the English}{\f21\fs18  (or }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Lettres philosophiques}{\f21\fs18 )\par 
\par 

12. Reportedly, when Hitler was questioned if people would object to his Final Solution, he asked if anyone had intervened to stop these events.  The first series began when troops burnt villages and killed thousands who refused to pay vastly higher taxes 
in 1894.  Two years later, partisans seized the Ottoman Bank in Istanbul to draw attention to their plight; 50,000 died in reprisals.  The worst, 
however, occurred during World War I when the Turkish government deported much of the ethnic group to Palestine, causing the deaths of over half a million people.  FTP name these atrocities.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Armenian}{\f21\fs18  massacres (or atrocities or something similar)\par 
\par 
13. The last ruler of this dynasty was defeated at the Battle of Great Zab River.  During their reign, Egypt, Palestine, Persia, North Africa, and Spain were absorbed into the empire.  Their rule also saw defeat at Poitiers and failure at the first siege
 of Constantinople from 674 to 678.  FTP name this dynasty that succeeded the last of the four \'93rightly-guided" caliphs in 661 and ruled to 750.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Umayyad}{\f21\fs18 s  \par 
\par 

14. The outer membrane is dotted with the protein porin, while ubiquinone and cytochrome oxidase complex line the folded inner membrane.  The double membrane is explained by the endosymbiont hypothesis which also helps explain the presence of self-replicat
ing DNA, similar to that found in bacteria.  For ten points, name the cellular organelle responsible for aerobic respiration. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul mitochondrion}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul mitochondria}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

15. Like Stonehenge, it is an ancient ruin of a Neolithic culture.  The Ring of Brodgar is the main circle, lying between the lakes of Stenness and Harray.  Also at this site is the Maes Howe, considered one of the most impressive chambered cairns in Europ
e.  For 10 points, name this henge that shares its name with an island group, the capital of which is Kirkwall on Pomona Island, and which is separated by Pentland Firth from Caithness County, Scotland.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Orkney}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

16. It is an ancient form of instrumental music.  Its origins lie in the Middle Ages when lutenists would meld several popular dances into a cycle.  By the Baroque Period, the specific dances had been replaced by their skeletal structures, and the form att
racted many major composers because of its variety in tempi, mood, and meters.  For 10 points, name this form, a famous series of which are the six that Bach wrote for unaccompanied cello.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul suite}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
17. 
Jeremy arrives from England to work for a wealthy Californian named Jo Stoyte.  While he reads the journals of a certain 18th century nobleman, Pete struggles with the concept of individualism, Virginia tries to avoid Pete, and the orangutans are subjected
 to research on longevity, which the doctor believes is possible based on the fact that giant carp can live to be hundreds of years old.  However, he's a few centuries too late to discover anything, for Jeremy finds references to carp intestines prolonging
 life in his own researches into the past.  For 10 points, name this novel about immortality by Aldous Huxley whose title was taken from a line from Alfred Lord Tennyson's poem "Tithonus."\par 
\tab Answer: "}{\f21\fs18\ul After Many a Summer Dies the Swan}{\f21\fs18 "\par 
\par 

18. One of the participants would later twice be the Federalist presidential candidate.  Another is famous for his service as governor of Massachusetts.  A third would be the Secretary of State and Chief Justice.  These three were asked to arrange a ten mi
llion dollar loan and pay a $250,000 bribe to Talleyrand.  They refused, and Americans got really huffy about it.  FTP name this 1798 event.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul XYZ}{\f21\fs18  Affair\par 
\par 

19. The North Pacific is the largest variety and can be 18 feet long.  Usually lacking a shell, it uses chromatophores in its skin to blend with the background.  During reproduction spermatophores are placed in the female mantle cavity by the hectocotylus,
 a modification of a male arm.  What cephalopod order is among the most intelligent invertebrates and, for ten points, is related to cuttlefish and squid?\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul octopus}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Octopoda}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

20. It is believed to be the outermost point of the ancient civilization of Dilmun.  Over half of its population are foreign male workers, but it still has a strong sense of national identity due to the homogeneity of the population's ethnicity and religio
n.  It declared its independence from Britain on June 19, 1961, the first Gulf state to terminate its agreement with that country.  For 10 points name this hereditary emirate ruled by the Al Sabah family.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Kuwait}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 

T1. Often a foot high when created, their hundred kilometer wavelengths produce interesting properties.  Since their frequencies are constant, their wavelengths sharply decrease and their amplitudes increase as their speed slows.  This occurs in shallow wa
ter, especially near coastlines where they can become 30 meters tall. For ten points, what oceanic phenomenon is usually caused by submarine earthquakes.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul tsunami}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul tidal wave}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T2. In a typical one, the tunic
a intima and tunica media have ruptured, leaving the tunica adventitia as the only containment.  A pulsating enlargment behind the knee is cause by one occurring in the politeal artery, however the aorta is even more prone to them.  For ten points, name th
is bulge usually found in the walls of diseased blood vessels.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul aneurysm}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
T3. His father was a carpenter or a peasant; his mother is unknown.  Yet he may have been descended from the Lombards or the Aldobrandi.  He began his religious career as a B
enedectine monk and later became promisor of St. Paul extra Mucho, which he almost singlehandedly restored to its former piety and discipline.  His influence in the Church led to his election as Pope; it was the last papal election to be ratified by an emp
eror.  For 10 points name this 11th century pope who succeeded Alexander II.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Gregory}{\f21\fs18  }{\f21\fs18\ul VII}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
\page }{\b\f21\fs18 1999 ACF Nationals\par 
Boni by Wash U.}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
1. George Bernard Shaw, of course, based his Pygmalion upon the mythical story of Pygmalion and Galatea from Ovid's Metamorphoses.  Answer the following related questions for 10 points apiece.\par 
1.    According to the myth, after Aphrodite brought Galatea to life, Galatea bore Pygmalion a son.  Name that son for 10 points.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Paphos}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.    Pygamlion's Galatea was not the only Galatea of Greek myth.  That Galatea was one of the Nereids and was in love with a handsome young Sicilian shepherd.  Name that shepherd, the other title character in the Handel opera [Blank]and Galatea.\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Acis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.    In the latter myth, this son of Poseidon and Thoosa was in love with Galatea; and when he saw the lovers alone together, he hurled a rock and killed Acis.  Who was this monstrous sufferer from unrequited love?\par 
      Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Polyphemus}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
2. Now for something you never thought you'd hear at ACF Nationals: Here's your Star Trek bonus.  Answer the following for ten points each. \par 
1. While working on a science project, Wesley uses the warp core to produce an antimatter copy of himself.  An ill-advised handshake disintegrates both
 snivelling brats. Assuming each Wesley masses a puny 50 kg, give within an order of magnitude how many Joules are released by their unfortunate deaths.  Take the speed of light to be 3 times 10 to the 8th meters per second.  You have 20 seconds. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 9 times 10 to the 18th}{\f21\fs18  Joules (accept }{\f21\fs18\ul 9 times 10 to the 17th}{\f21\fs18  to }{\f21\fs18\ul 9 times 10 to the 19th}{\f21\fs18  Joules) \par 
2. During Wesley's tragic demise, Data was caught in the blast.  Relativistic electrons produced in the explosion spiralled around the magnetic field in the warp core and created this type of radiation which scrambled Data's positronic brain. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul synchrotron}{\f21\fs18  radiation\par 

3. The synchrotron radiation triggers yet another appearance of the "bad Data".  This time, Data grabs the 100 kg Worf standing next to him and throws him at 12 meters per second towards Counselor Troi.  The two undergo a nasty completely inelastic collisi
on.  Assuming that Troi masses 50 kilos, at what speed does the resultant glob of Klingon and Betazoid hit the bulkhead. You have 20 seconds.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul 8}{\f21\fs18  meters per second\par 
\par 
3. Cast your minds back before the Battle of the Marne and name these generals of World War I for 10 points each:\par 
1.\tab The French Commander in Chief who rose to his position shortly before the war, replacing General Michel.  \par 
\tab Answer: Joseph-Jacques-Cesaire }{\f21\fs18\ul Joffre}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.\tab The commander of the British Expeditionary Force whose bitter and accusatory post-war book 1914 was called "one of the most unfortunate books ever written".\par 
\tab Answer: Sir John }{\f21\fs18\ul French}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.\tab The Russian general who commanded the 2nd Army.  After losing the battle of Tannenburg, he committed suicide in a forest.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Samsonov}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
4. Identify the composers of these piano concertos for the stated number of points.\par 
1. (5 points) His 1925 Piano Concerto in F was the first major concerto to incorporate jazz rhythms and chords in a classical format.\par 
      Answer: George }{\f21\fs18\ul Gershwin}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) This Frenchman wrote his "Egyptian" concerto in 1896 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of his performing debut at age 11.  It was his 5th and last piano concerto.  \par 
      Answer: Camille }{\f21\fs18\ul Saint-Sa\'91ns}{\f21\fs18  (san-sahns)\par 
3. (15 points) This composer's fame rests largely on one piano concerto composed in 1936, from which comes his most popular theme.  He also composed the ballets Gayane and Spartacus.\par 
      Answer: Aram }{\f21\fs18\ul Khatchaturian}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
5. Shakespeare has had tremendous influence on the English language.  For 10 points each, name the Shakespearean play from which these now common phrases originated.\par 
1.  \'93masters of their fates," \'93an itching plan," and \'93it was Greek to me."\tab \par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Julius Caesar}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. \'93pomp and circumstance," \'93a forgone conclusion," and "who steals my purse steals trash."\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Othello}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. \'93the primrose path," \'93the dog will have his day," and \'93brevity is the soul of wit."\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Hamlet}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
6. For 10 points each, given the fort (past or present), name the U.S. state (or future state) in which it was located.\par 
1.  Ft. Duquesne              \par 
\tab \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Pennsylvania}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2.  Ft. Bliss                \par 
\tab    Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Texas}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  Ft. Pillow             \par 
\tab    Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Tennessee}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
7. These physics terms are related.  Name them for 10 points each.\par 
1. This effect describes the creation of a transverse electric field in a current-carrying metal placed in a magnetic field.  It demonstrates electrons have negative charge. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Hall}{\f21\fs18  effect\par 
2. In 1980, Klaus von Klitzing found that at low temperatures and high magnetic fields, the Hall resistance takes on discrete values.  What name is given to this effect.\par 
\tab Answer: integer }{\f21\fs18\ul quantum Hall}{\f21\fs18  effect\par 
3. The quantized values of the Hall resistance are closely related to a dimensionless constant approximately equal to 1 over 137.  Name it. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul fine structure}{\f21\fs18  constant\par 
\par 
8. Name the English novel 30-20-10 from its events.\par 
1.\tab Georgiana makes a successful marriage, and Eliza eventually becomes the Mother Superior of a convent.\par 
2.\tab Although the boarding school Lowood experiences a typhus epidemic, Helen Burns dies of consumption.  Her epitaph is merely "Resurgam."\par 
3.\tab The title character becomes a governess to a French girl named Adele Varens and falls in love with her employer.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\i\f21\fs18\ul Jane Eyre}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
9. Answer the following related epidemiology questions for ten points each. \par 
1. This family of enveloped viruses with a single, negative-sense RNA strand are string-shaped and highly pathogenic.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul filovirus}{\f21\fs18 es\par 
2.  Both of the known filoviruses are among the most dangerous known pathogens.  Several strains cause severe hemorraghic fevers have 90% mortality rates.  Name them for five points each. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Ebola}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Marburg}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3.  There are four known varieties of Ebola: two named for countries, one for an American city, and one for a forest in the Ivory Coast.  Name any two, five points each.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Zaire}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Sudan}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Reston}{\f21\fs18 , }{\f21\fs18\ul Tai}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
10. Name the character from Moby Dick: Or, the Whale FTSNOP.\par 
1. 5) This proud defiant captain of the \'93Pequod" has a scar that reportedly runs the entire length of his body.\par 
\tab \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Ahab}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10) This first mate continually tries to avert Ahab from disaster, becoming a symbol of \'93mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness."\par 
\tab \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Starbuck}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (15) This white-turbaned Parsee seems to be Ahab's shadow and prophesies his death.\par 
\tab \tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Fedallah}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
11. Answer these things about Platonic dialogues FTP each.\par 
1. This dialogue records Socrates's defense at his trial.\par 
\tab \tab Answer:  the }{\f21\fs18\ul Apology}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. The subject of this dialogue, John Edwards's favorite, is \'96 What is temperance?\par 
\tab \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Charmides}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. The unfinished Critias discusses a conflict between Athens and this island-state.\par 
\tab \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Atlantis}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
12. Name the religion 30-20-10.\par 
1.\tab There is only one God, called Gran Met or Bondye, but there are also numerous lesser entities called Loa that can possess the faithful.\par 
2.\tab Someone who wishes to become a practitioner of this religion must not renounce prior religious beliefs; most of the worshippers in this religion's primary country are also Roman Catholics.\par 
3.\tab It came to the United States following the 1790 slave revolt in Santo Domingo with the immigration of thousands of former slaves to Louisiana.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Voodoo}{\f21\fs18  or }{\f21\fs18\ul Voudoun}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
13. For 10 points each, answer these questions about organisms of the Mesozoic era, none of which were dinosuars. \par 
1. Despite their name they were neither fish nor lizards.  Through convergent evolution this group developed the same fish-like shape of dolphins and sharks. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul icthyosaur}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
2. This ancient group of seed plants arose during the Permian and flourished in the Jurassic.  Resembling palms, they are now found only in tropical regions. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cycad}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
3. Arising during the Paleozoic, these molluscs floursihed and died in the Mesozoic.  Related to the modern pearly nautilus, their rapid evolution makes them vauable as index fossils.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul ammonite}{\f21\fs18 s or }{\f21\fs18\ul ammonoid}{\f21\fs18 s\par 
\par 
14. Name the Latin American novelist from works.\par 
1. The House of the Steps, Eva Luna\par 
\tab \tab Answer:  Isabel }{\f21\fs18\ul Allende}{\f21\fs18  \par 
2. The Kingdom of this World, The Lost Steps\par 
\tab \tab Answer: Alejo }{\f21\fs18\ul Carpentier}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. The Death of Artemio Cruz\par 
 \tab \tab Answer: Carlos }{\f21\fs18\ul Fuentes}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
15. Name the nefarious Robber Barons FTP each.\par 
He served as president of the Great Northern Railways from 1893 to 1907.\par 
\tab Answer:  James J. }{\f21\fs18\ul Hill}{\f21\fs18 \par 
This man, who once boasted, \'93I can hire one half of the working class to kill the other half," lent tremendous support to organized labor when in 1884 as president of Southwestern Railways he sat down and negotiated with the Knights of Labor.\par 
\tab Answer:  Jay }{\f21\fs18\ul Gould}{\f21\fs18   \par 
This man, along with Gould, tried to corner the gold market in 1869.\par 
\tab Answer: James }{\f21\fs18\ul Fisk}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
16. Answer these questions about protein synthesis for the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 points) Name the process whereby a DNA molecule unwinds and is converted into messenger RNA.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul transcription}{\f21\fs18 \par 
2. (10 points) During transcription an enzyme binds the complementary RNA bases to the separated DNA strand.  Name the enzyme. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul RNA polymerase}{\f21\fs18 \par 
3. (5 points) Name the process where messenger RNA directs the linking of amino acids into proteins.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul translation}{\f21\fs18 \par 
4. (10 points) During translation, sequences of three nitrogenous bases on transfer RNA molecules bond with corresponding sequences on messenger RNA. What name is given to these transfer RNA sequences.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul anticodon}{\f21\fs18  (do not accept or prompt on codon)\par 
\par 
17. Everyone knows that Canada has no history, but what about its sister member of the Commonwealth \'96 Australia?  Answer these questions about the land of Natalie Imbruglia and Sherrie Austin FTSNOP.\par 
5 \'96 This explorer discovered Botany Bay in 1770.\par 
\tab Answer:  James }{\f21\fs18\ul Cook}{\f21\fs18 \par 
10 \'96 This king of the bushrangers stole horses and robbed banks, but also had plans to found a republic in north-east Australia before he was executed in 1880.  He was also the subject of a 1970 Mick Jagger film.\par 
\tab Answer:  Ned }{\f21\fs18\ul Kelly}{\f21\fs18 \par 
15 \'96 In this 1854 event, Australia's version of Dorr's Rebellion, thirty golddiggers who had agitated for political and property rights were killed when police attacked their flimsy barricade.  It is seen as the beginning of Australian democracy.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Eureka Stockade}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
18. Answer these questions about McCarthyism FTP apiece.\par 
It was in this year that Joseph McCarthy shocked a Woman's Club in Wheeling, West Virginia by claiming that Communists had infiltrated the State Department, thus initiating a Red Scare.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul 1950}{\f21\fs18 \par 
This 1940 law, which made it a crime to advocate the violent overthrow of the U.S. government, was used to prosecute members of the Communist party in the early 1950s.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul Smith}{\f21\fs18  Act (or }{\f21\fs18\ul Alien Registration}{\f21\fs18  Act)\par 
In 1954, the Senate held hearings on a dispute between McCarthy and this organization.\par 
\tab Answer:  }{\f21\fs18\ul U.S}{\f21\fs18 . }{\f21\fs18\ul Army}{\f21\fs18 \par 
\par 
19. Identify the following special mathematical functions of the stated number of points. \par 
1. (5 pts) Other than the function always equal to zero, this function is the only one equal to its own derivative. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul exponential}{\f21\fs18  function or }{\f21\fs18\ul e to the x}{\f21\fs18  (Note: Accept\par 
alternatives)\par 
2. (10 pts) A generalization of the factorial function to noninteger\par 
values, the value at one-half is the square root of pi.\par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul gamma}{\f21\fs18  function\par 
3. (15 pts) Arising in the solution of Laplace's equation in cylindrical coordinates, sums of the first and second kinds of these functions are Hankel functions. \par 
\tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Bessel}{\f21\fs18  functions\par 
\par 
20. For 10 points each, given the definition, give me the art term it defines.\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 1.\tab The use of extreme light and dark values for dramatic effect, typical of Baroque painting.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul chiaroscuro}{\f21\fs18  (key-ar-a-skoo-ro)\par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 2.\tab The use of intersecting lines of equal width spaced close together for dark values and farther apart for lighter ones to give the illusion of shading.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul cross-hatching}{\f21\fs18 \par 
}\pard \tx360 {\f21\fs18 3.\tab An art movement of the 1910s and 20s begun as a protest against World War I that shocked the viewer through deliberate irrationality.\par 
}\pard {\f21\fs18 \tab Answer: }{\f21\fs18\ul Dada}{\f21\fs18 ism\par 
}}